Good morning. Welcome to the
International Connection and it's a very
special show this morning.
This is the beginning of a journey we're
about to take on this program. A journey
into a gruesome world of mind control
experiments by government financed
doctors in Canada and the United States.
Inhuman experiments performed on humans,
children for the most part.
For the next eight months on the
International Connection, we will be
airing interviews with survivors of mind
control experiments and ritual abuse,
lectures and interviews with therapists,
researchers, and writers who are dealing
with the legacy of mind control.
Specifically, we'll be looking at the
documented history of US CIA and
military mind control experimental
programs.
Also, the struggles of survivors to get
compensation from the CIA and Canadian
government, in particular for the
government funded mind control
experiments at McGill University under
Dr. Euan Cameron.
We'll be hearing the accounts of
survivors of horrific experiments
involving electroshock drugs, brain
implants, sensory deprivation, psychic
driving, forced sleep, ritual, and
sexual abuse.
We'll also be discussing the mil
military and intelligence uses of mind
control in including theft,
assassination, and sexual blackmail
using the child victims.
We'll be talking about the use of
creating multiple personality disorder
in people for mind control purposes and
its links to the multiple personality
effects of ritual abuse.
We'll be discussing with therapists,
talking about the effects of severe
trauma, sexual abuse, recovered
memories, and the false memory syndrome.
Many people listening may be aware of
Dr. Cameron's projects at the Alen
Memorial Institute in Montreal. But this
wasn't the only location. The
experimental projects were carried out
all across Canada and of course in the
United States as well. The first segment
of this radio series, Mind Control in
Canada, features a lecture by Dr. Colin
Ross to his colleagues about the history
of the US CIA and military mind control
programs. Dr. Ross is a Canadian
psychiatrist specializing in multiple
personality disorder currently
practicing in Texas.
He has researched a subject for many
years and is currently writing a book
about mind control. He has obtained
thousands of CIA documents through the
free freedom of information act. And
through these documents, Dr. Roth is
able to prove US government has been
using MPD and Manurion candidates
operationally since World War II. And it
doesn't stop there.
This lecture is part one of a three
1-hour segment to kick off this radio
series, Mind Control in Canada on 88.1
CKLN.
And now to Dr. Colin Ross. So why am I
talking about this and what is it that
I'm going to try and say here? Well, one
explanation is nobody has the faintest
idea what I'm talking about and I'm here
talking about it because I'm a little
wacky. Hopefully, by the end of the day,
that will be the conclusion. However,
that is a conclusion that's been
unhappily in print in various esteemed
locations such as British Journal of
Psychiatry, Esquire Magazine, uh Richard
Ashy's book, Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation film. So, it's been a very
curious experience to go through this
little journey that Kevin just alluded
to, which is the same journey as we've
all gone through who've heard anything
about this from patients. And it starts
off back in the remote past in 198185
when I'm a resident.
And I mentioned yesterday that in four
years of medical school, four years of
residency training, I had more
multiplechoice questions on leash nyan
syndrome which just to remind you as you
all know is an inherited deficiency of
hypoanthine guanine phosphorol
transferase.
Had more questions on that syndrome in
my four years of medical school and four
years of psychiatry than on childhood
sexual abuse
and more teaching.
So then somewhere in the course of the
residency I kind of get up to speed on
dissocive disorders and connect them to
child abuse and read the literature get
a little bit grounded. The avalanche of
MPD cases starts for me u late ' 85 into
86 and I think I've kind of a little bit
got what's going on and some person
comes in and starts telling me about
their father was killed by the mafia and
they were taken to a mafia child
prostitution brothel and then they were
involved in satanic ritual stuff.
So I go, gee,
no books, no literature, nobody's ever
heard of it. Nobody talks about it.
Totally in outer space, no idea what to
do or which way to turn. Or go to the
Eastern Regional Conference, go to
Chicago, find out a little bit, start
getting a little bit grounded. And the
first couple of cases, my personal
reaction is,
"This sounds real. Sure sounds real.
Could be real. It's pretty scary. Wonder
if I should let my kids out on Halloween
or not."
And then the sort of basic experience is
whatever percentage of satanic ritual
abuse is actually real, it's clear that
we got into some great big hysteria wave
in society in general and in the
profession. And a lot of people went a
bridge or two too far on their journey
and we had to rein ourselves back in.
So the the time course now is in my
training there's no sexual abuse at all.
It doesn't exist. It's not relevant
because it doesn't exist. Then it goes
to well it exists but it's not really
all that relevant. And then there's this
sort of outlier gadfly people are into
dissociative disorders who aren't
accepted by the mainstream. Then those
dissocive disorders people from a
foundation of reality that was hidden go
off into outer space on this u wasn't
alien abductions but was still outer
space satanic ritual view stuff.
Then they sort of come back to Earth and
get a little bit grounded
and next thing you know it's all this
government experiments, mind control
stuff. So if you follow the pattern,
what should be the case is it's just
another hysteria wave. And the more you
look into it, the more it'll just
dissolve and we'll all settle down.
We'll forget about it. Well, the pattern
didn't work because when I started
systematically looking into CI and
military mind control, the more I
looked, the more solid reality there was
there. And as you'll see if we go
through these slides and go through this
talk,
it's a completely different deal from
satanic ritual abuse. Somewhere out
there in the justice system, there may
actually be objective evidence where
somebody's actually busted a satanic
ritual abuse cult. If there is, that
information is not generally publicly
available to any of us. It is a fact
that we have not nailed down the
existence of human sacrifice cults in
North America, if they exist.
So it's all conjecture.
Today I will prove to you completely
locked down, documented, proven, beyond
dispute or discussion that intelligence
agencies have been creating maturing
candidates and multiple personality
disorder for operational use since the
second world war. This is not a
conspiracy theory. This is a fact.
Now that's very amazing because if you
took an opinion poll of all the
psychiatrists in the American
Psychiatric Association today or you
took the same poll 5 years ago 99.99
there' be maybe two outlier
psychiatrists in the whole group who
would say it's possible that menuring
candidates are real. I mean over 99% of
psychiatrists would say it's fiction. We
know the movie is fiction. Frank Sinatra
did a good job
but there's just no way. It's absolutely
impossible. This is a very very very
strange phenomena that actually this is
in now in 1996 a completely documented
fact. It's a very strange sociological
little development in the field of
psychiatry. How could that be possible?
Well, I'm going to try and explain how
it's possible today.
So, that's what I'm going to talk about.
Also, I'm going to talk about not just
creating mentoring candidates, but the
whole network of mind control doctors
that's involved in this and supports
this and this kind of old boy network
that maintains all of this.
And you'll see a whole bunch of slides
with godzillion interconnections between
them that I'll go into in detail. And
every one of those steps, unless I
otherwise specify, every one of those
steps is completely documented,
absolutely objective and full.
So there's something real peculiar about
just the whole story. It's a very
strange story. It tells us that there's
something going on in our culture and in
the mental health field that is hidden
and secret. This is another kind of
incest secret in the field of
psychiatry. that all of these people who
have been running psychiatry in the
latter part of the 20th century are
either directly or loosely connected in
to whole huge universe of covert hidden
secretly funded mind control research
then as I emphasized that's a fact
now why should we be talking about that
at this conference well it's obvious if
in fact experimental multiple
personality disorder has been created
and has been tight and hard and real
enough for operational use by
intelligence agencies for the last 50
years. This is something of interest to
the dissocive disorders field.
This is profound evidence in favor of
theenic pathway to dissociative identity
disorder that I talked about this
morning.
When I combine the expert witness
experience, I've had a clinically
created yatrogenic did using the
techniques of destructive psychotherapy
cults and course of persuasion
as I described this morning. When I take
that expert witness evidence and see
those cases created out of a base of no
pre-existing dissociative disorder and
then I go to this CIA military mind
control literature, my only possible
conclusion is yes, you can create full
tilt did artificially from ground zero.
Also, I have to conclude that you can
create any degree complexity
permutation combination of false
memories you want. There is absolutely
no limit on the quantity, complexity,
reality, congruence, plausibility of
false memories that you can insert into
somebody's mind, wittingly or
unwittingly.
So they didn't tell me that in medical
school.
So this is a little subparadigm
revolution in the dissocive disorders
field. There's a huge wealth of
information,
experimental information, clinical
anecdotal information, and operational
street smarts knowledge of the socio
disorders that's been up and running and
present full tilt in the mental health
field for 50 years now. This did not
spring out of nowhere in 1980. And we
are missing a ton of experimental
research data that's still classified
that bears directly on this false memory
debate that's going on in our society
now. And you'll see some of the players
in this dis uh whole scenario are
interesting people. If we could put the
slide projector on. What I'm going to do
is run through a few slides. Now,
there's a series of slides now. Then
we're going to stop and I'm going to
read some passages and then we'll go
back into the slide. Every slide that I
will show you is in your handout packet
so you don't have to take notes on that
information. Anybody who's listening to
the tape, there's also a few examples of
the documentation uh in your materials
after the slides. Anybody who has
ordered the tape and wants to get that
information can call me at Charter
Hospital in Dallas at 1 8002553312
and we can just mail that to you. So the
first point I'm just going to zip
through these slides kind of quickly.
The first point is that there are a lot
of documented declassified mind control
research programs that are completely
objectively proven. They're beyond a
shadow of a doubt. And I have a lot of
this material and some of it I have on
order. So the first this is CIA now. Uh
Bluebird and Artichoke were two programs
that ran from 1951 to 53. And I'll read
you some stuff from Artichoke in a
minute. MK these were then rolled over
into MK Ultra which ran from 1953 to
1963.
And then there's 149 sub projects that
you'll see a listing of in a second.
that then was administratively rolled
over into MK search which ran up till
uh contiguously with that and in
collaboration with uh Edgeware Arsenal.
MK Naomi which involves uh MK Ultra and
Archen Bluebird type research done uh
abroad and nationally ran from 1953 to
and this all involves all kinds of
hallucinogens and hypnosis and so on
that I'll go into in detail. Stargate is
um just recently declassified ESP
paranormal remote viewing uh military
uses of telekinesis type research that
was done from an uncertain start date up
until 1984. Bill Gates, former director
of the CIA on ABC's dine in December 95,
said that it ran up till 1984. They had
one of the academic contractors to
Stargate on the show and they had the
man whose job was CIA oversight of
military experimentation under Stargate.
So this really went on. They really used
psychics operationally and they believed
in enough to keep spending millions of
dollars on it for several decades
probably.
Now when you uh read all the Senate
materials from the 70s and read all the
existing literature, the claim of the
intelligence community is that all of
this mind control research stopped in
1973 due to uh Senate oversight and so
on.
One of the uh MK Ultra sub projects is
on the paranormal ESP and using ESP for
covert operations purposes. That element
of MK Ultra didn't stop in 1973. We now
know from the CIA itself that it ran on
until 1984. So we know for a fact that
at least that element of this mind
control research program that was said
to have stopped in 73 continued 84. And
my position is that it's simply
implausible that this stuff isn't
ongoing up to the present. You'll see
from this list, Project Chatter, Project
often, Derby Hat, Third Chance,
Chickwit, MK Delta, and QK Hilltop that
there was a large number of different
programs in the ' 50s, '60s, and 70s,
all of which u have just a little tidbit
of information about them. Most of the
actual documents and so on, uh nobody's
either reviewed and nobody's obtained
through the Freedom of Information Act
yet.
So, this is a huge amount of as yet
still classified information.
Okay. Okay, now I'm just going to give
you kind of a a smattering run through
of the institutions that were sites for
MK Ultra research. So MK Ultra, there
was 149 different sub projects in MK
Ultra and these were not in obscure
little corners of the world. See there's
American Psychological Association. This
is a Butler Hospital health center as
part of uh Harvard Children's
International Summit Villages is a very
charming place. This was a project
involving a study of children at an
international summer camp age 11. And
the study was to determine how children
who don't share a common language
communicate. And in the CIA materials,
it states that the investigator was
unwitting of the fact that it was CIA
funding. And the purpose of the CIA
interest in these 11-year-olds was that
they might possibly identify promising
uh young foreign nationals for future
use by the agency.
Columbia University,
Cornell, Denver, Emory, Florida, George
Washington, Harvard. This just give you
a feel for who's involved in this stuff.
Houston, Illinois, Indiana University's
John's Hopkins, Eli Liy was the big
supplier of LSD to the CIA.
Those of you who uh can remember the
60s,
remember the House of the Rising Sun by
the British rock group The Animals. They
had a song called a girl named Sandos.
Sandos was the employer of Hoffman who
uh discovered LSD in the 1940s. Sandos
was the original supplier of uh LSD to
the CIA and the military in the 1950s
and they wanted to secure American
supply. So they contracted with Eli Liy
to become the developer. Uh University
of Minnesota, New Jersey reformatory of
Bordon Town. You're going to see it a
bunch of times on subsequent slides.
Ohio, you know, University of
Pennsylvania, Penn State,
Princeton, Stanford,
couple universities in Texas, Wisconsin,
the Bureau of Narcotics, a prison, a
narcotics farm.
So, these contracts, uh, McGill, NIH,
NIMH, National Philosophical Society,
everybody gets in on the act a little,
NRC. So these were all of the major
players in North American psychiatry and
psychology who are receiving this kind
of funding.
Office of Naval Research which is you're
going to see multiple times on the
slide. Worester Foundation for
Experimental Biology. All kinds of
different agencies and groups. MK Search
is the one that MK Ultra was rolled into
ran from 63 to 73. Again, Bureau of
Narcotics, New Jersey Neurosychiatric,
which was also an MK Ultra site. I'll
talk about more detail. Vakavville State
Prison. You're going to hear a whole
bunch about.
Now, Bluebird and Artichoke, which were
51 to 53 institutions there include
Bureau of Narcotics, Cornell, Eli Liy,
again, NIH, Public Health Service,
University of Minnesota. So, you get the
idea. Now, what about the the proven
identity of some of the actual
contractors?
The terminology here is we've got the
contractor, then we've got the sub
project number and I have uh most of
these I actually have the subcontract
files and security status mean TS means
top secret cleared and UW means
unwitting cuz this money was usually put
through a funding fund. Uh and you'll
see a slide on all the way that was all
organized. So the person could get CIA
money through the funding front and
genuinely not know that it was CIA money
would just think it was another
foundation. So most of these people you
haven't heard of like James Hamilton and
Harold Abramson and Carl Fefeifer but
you'll hear more about him later today.
But some of these people might sound a
little bit familiar. Louis Jolian West
who's at UCLA. Euan Cameron who's was in
McGill has been written about a lot. And
uh yes this is Carl Rogers of Rogerian
psychotherapy fame. He was actually a uh
spook psychiatrist with top secret
clearance who was on the advisory board
of one of the funding fronts and
received funding for psychotherrapeutic
research on schizophrenia.
It's a very funny thing that Mr.
Friendly Carl was in network.
Uh Martin Or you'll hear a lot about
him. These people were at University of
Oklahoma and they were doing research on
street gangs. Four of the MK Ultra sub
projects were on children and all of the
investigators for those were unwitting.
Martin Lawrence top secret clearance
status. Maitelland Baldwin is a
neurosurgeon who did uh stuff on monkey
brains. Uh George White was a CIA career
officer who constructed safe houses in
San Francisco and New York where uh
people were recruited in off the street
to have sex with prostitutes and were
given LSD and other drugs without their
knowing it. The rationale for this is
that they're attempting to study
reaction of unwitting subjects in
civilian settings to mind control drugs.
An alternative hypothesis is that they
were actually testing mentor incandate
prostitute performance.
Uh Harold Wolf was uh at Cornell.
Raymond Prince I've corresponded with
he's an unwitting guy who did uh
research amongst the Yoruba in Nigeria
on their folk healing practices.
Uh R. Gordon Wson. I was a little bit
unhappy to see him on the list but
relieved to see he was unwitting because
I read a book of his called Soma Divine
Mushroom of immortality a long time ago
which is a very interesting book on fly
agric which is that little red toad
stool with the white flakes on it called
it's technically called ammonita
mascaria and the use of that by circum
polar shamans is very interesting
history uh John Mhalland's actually a
magician and when you go through all
these documents all these names are
whited out you've got to piece it
together from here and there. And it's a
great big story trying to track it all
down except uh they goofed up. John
Mhalland's name was not white out
whiteed out once.
>> Not as Yeah. Not ascertained. Right.
When you when you get a file on one of
these sub projects, there's usually a
page in there that has standardized
wording about uh no individuals
associated with this project are witting
or uh so and so whose name is whiteed
out has top secret clearance and is
aware of agency involvement.
Uh there's somebody you've probably
heard of. His name is BF Skinner.
I'm still doing some of the archival
research to figure out what his sub
project number is and what his security
status is. Uh, but I would suspect it'll
turn out to be top secret.
Okay. Now, just before we get to that
slide, I'm going to read you some
material, some of which is in your
handout.
As you can see, these slides are going
to show you an awful lot of connections
between an awful lot of different things
here. But
you get the gist of there was a lot of
sub projects, a lot of different
investigators all over mainstream
academia. Now, I want I'm going to jump
to proving to you that multiple
personality disorder has been created by
the CIA and the military since the
Second World War. And the first stopoff
point is at the back of your series of
handouts there. It's a a publication
called Science Digest, April 1971. The
author is GH Esster Brooks, E S T A B R
O Ks, and the article is called Hypnosis
Comes of Age.
So when you go to
page 48, it is on there. I'm going to
read this out loud for benefit of people
listening to the tape.
He's now writing in 1971 and he says the
following. One of the most fascinating
but dangerous applications of hypnosis
is its use in military intelligence.
This is a field with which I'm familiar
through formulating guidelines for the
techniques used by the United States in
two world wars.
For those of you who are not history
buffs, that means at least back to 1914.
Communication in war is always a
headache. Codes can be broken. A
professional spy may or may not stay
bot. Your own man may have
unquestionable loyalty, but his judgment
is always open to question. The hypnotic
courier, on the other hand, provides a
unique solution. I was involved in
preparing many subjects for this work
during World War II. One successful case
involved an Army Service Corps captain
whom we'll call George Smith. Captain
Smith had undergone months of training.
He was an excellent subject but not
realize it. I had removed from him by
postnotic suggestion all recollection of
ever having been hypnotized. First, I
had the service corps call the captain
to Washington and tell him they needed a
report on the mechanical equipment of
Division X headquartered in Tokyo. Smith
was ordered to leave by jet next
morning, pick up the report, and return
at once. These orders were given him in
the waking state consciously. That was
all he knew and it was the story he gave
his wife and friends. Then I put him
under deep hypnosis and gave him orally
a vital message to be delivered directly
on his arrival to in Japan to a certain
colonel. Let's say his name was Brown of
military intelligence. Outside of
myself, Colonel Brown was the only
person who could hypnotize Captain
Smith. This is locking. I performed it
by u I've had patients talk to me about
locking. I performed it by saying to
hypnotized captain, "Until further
orders from me, only Colonel Brown and I
can hypnotize you. You will use a signal
phrase, the moon is clear." Whenever you
hear this phrase from Brown or myself,
you will pass instantly into deep
hypnosis. When Captain Smith is
reawakened, he had no consc was
reawakened. He had no conscious memory
of what happened in trance. All that he
was aware of was that he must head for
Tokyo to pick up a division report. On
arrival there, Smith reported to Brown,
who hypnotized him with the signal
phrase. Under hypnosis, Smith delivered
my message and received one to bring
back. Awakened, he was given the
division report and returned home by
Jet. There, I hypnotized him once more
with the signal phrase, and he spilled
off Brown's answer that had been
dutifully tucked away in his unconscious
mind. The system is virtually foolproof,
as exemplified by this case. The
information literally was locked in
Smith's unconscious for retrieval by the
only two people who knew the
combination. The subject had no
conscious memory of what happened, so
couldn't spill the beans. No one else
could hypnotize him, even if they might
know the signal phrase.
Not all applications of hypnotism to
military intelligence are as tidy as
that. Perhaps now here he makes a
scholarly mistake because he's talking
about Morton Prince's uh the
dissociation of a personality and he
refers to the book the three faces of
Eve. Perhaps you have read the three
faces of Eve. The book was based on a
case reported in 1905 by Dr. Morton
Prince of Massachusetts General Hospital
and Harvard. He startled everyone in the
field by announcing that he had cured a
woman named Beichum of a split
personality problem. Using post-hypnotic
suggestions to submerge an incompatible
childlike facet of the patient, he'd
been able to make two other sides of
Mrs. Beichum compatible and lump them
together in a single cohesive
personality. Clinical hypnotists
throughout the world jumped on the
multiple personality bandwagon as a
fascinating frontier. By the 1920s, not
only had they learned to apply
post-hypnotic suggestion to deal with
this weird problem, but also had learned
how to split certain complex
individuals, very interesting phrase,
into multiple personalities like Jackal
Hides. The potential for military
intelligence has been nightmarish.
During World War II, I worked this
technique with a vulnerable marine
lieutenant I'll call Jones. Under the
watchful eye of Marine intelligence, I
split his personality into Jones A and
Jones B. Jones A, once a normal working
Marine, became entirely different. He
talked communist doctrine and meant it.
He was welcomed enthusiastically by
communist cells was deliberately given a
dishonorable discharge by the core
that's called sheep dipping is a
technical term for that which was in on
the plot and became a card carrying
party member the joker was Jones B the
second personality formerly apparent in
the conscious marine under hypnosis this
Jones had been carefully coached by
suggestion Jones B was the deeper
personality knew all the thoughts of
Jones A was a loyal American and was
imprinted to say nothing during
conscious phases all I had to do is
hypnotize the whole man get in touch
with Jones be the loyal American and I
had a pipeline uh straight into the
communist camp. It worked beautifully
for months with this subject, but the
technique backfired. Well, there was no
way for an enemy to expose Jones's dual
personality. They suspected it and
played the same trick on us later.
Okay, so now the only question becomes,
is Esther Brooks some sort of kook?
Maybe he didn't really do this. Maybe
he's grandiose or delusional or just
bullshitting or whatever. So, let's take
a look at who GH Esther Brooks is. How
are we going to do that? We're going to
talk to a JFK assassination researcher
who tells us that Esther Brook's
personal papers are all uh at Colgate
College in Hamilton in upper state New
York. That there's whole bunch of
boxfuls of all his personal papers as
correspondents and files and so on. So
what we'll do is we'll send our
secretary up there for 5 days to go
through those 17 boxes which are
unindexed,
unressearched and unpublished in any
form. And then we'll request a bunch of
that material to be photocopied. We'll
bring it back to our office in
Richardson. We'll look at it and then
we'll talk about it in Orange County
later on.
And what we find is JH Tester Books was
born in uh Newfoundland in Canada. So
he's always suspect because he's
Canadian.
He's not really too dumb. He's a road
scholar.
He ends up uh studying I I'm pretty sure
under Gardner Murphy at Harvard, takes a
PhD and uh spends really his entire
adult professional career at this
obscure Colgate uh college in upper
state New York. So, is he just an
isolated cook or is he connected in in
any way? Well, as I'm going through all
of this military mind control research
in the library,
I'm aware that Martin Norn, who we'll
get to in a while, is one of the people
I really want to focus in on. And I
notice in mart one of Martin Or's papers
that he's referenced G. Chesterbrook's
1943 textbook which I've read where he
describes creating Manurion candidates
for the military. So I know that Martin
Norton's aware of G. Chesterbrooks's
claim to have created multiple
personality disorder. Can I establish
any better connection than that? Well,
lo and behold, I find out that
Gesterbrooks edited a book to which
Martin Horn contributed a chapter. Okay,
so now Martin is like totally connected
into the whole picture as you'll see
later.
But if you go to u a couple of pages
ahead of that material I just read,
you'll see a letter from GHS Brooks
dated August 22nd, 1961.
Uh, dear Martin, I am sending to thee a
special delivery, one halo, pure gold,
one pair of wings which you can try on
for size, and a credit card for use in
the hereafter. Your article is of course
excellent. Upon receipt of your letter,
I immediately called Midindorf and he
informed me before I could even broach
the subject that they would of course
grant your request for reprints. Someday
I'm going to have myself examined and
find out why I do not consider these
matters before I embarrass my friends.
By the way, I'll be at the APA meetings
Friday and Saturday, September 1st and
2nd. Then I'll have to whip back here
and head south. If at all possible, I
will be up at the Builtmore. If you and
Ron, which is Ron Shore, are anywhere in
the vicinity, let us sit down and yak at
each other. I'm not overlooking the fact
that our meeting at Cambridge with
yourself and Ron sort of crystallized an
idea in my mind. I had a wonderful
month's vacation in Canada, Toronto,
Ottawa, Quebec City, Murray Bay, St.
John, New Brunswick, and home. We
particularly like the French country. My
wife's native language is French,
although she speaks Italian, English,
and German as well. I find that with her
along, the red carpet is literally
rolled out, and we see corners of the
back country where they would set the
dogs on me if I happened to turn up
alone. Thank you tremendously. Hope to
see you at the APA. My best regards to
Ron. So it seems that these guys knew
each other. Now if you turn over to the
next page,
Colgate University Symposium on
Hypnosis, April 1st to 2nd, 1960 in
Hamilton, New York. Opening address by
GHB's chairman. speakers are ER
Hillgard, author of the neo dissociation
book, which is a foundation of the
entire field here, member of the DSM4
dissociative disorders committee. Uh Ron
Shore, frequent co-author with Martin
Orton,
I don't know. Seamer Fiser, I've seen
his name going through different stuff.
Woolberg, I've seen his name around
behavioral guy, I think. Martin Or J.
Chester Brooks. Oh, who's that guy? Oh,
Milton Ericson. Yeah, I've heard of him.
So, this Jester books is not just some
isolated cook. He's a pretty connected
in well-known guy and all the luminaries
in hypnosis in this part of the 20th
century know him personally, are
corresponding with him on a friendly
basis and are coming to workshops he put
on and publishing in books he's edited.
So, so much for the isolated cook
theory. Well, maybe he just kind of was
bragging a bit and he wasn't really
connected to the military.
Well,
bad news.
Couple pages back, you see on stationary
of the War Department, Office of the
Secretary, Washington, DC, dated
February 20th, 1942,
named George H. Chesterbrooks, nature of
action, accepted appointment,
expert consultant to the Secretary of
War without other compensation with the
payment of actual transportation
expenses and not to exceed $10 per DM in
lie of subsistence and other expenses.
So he definitely had military
intelligence appointment in the Second
World War. Turn over to the next page.
Now we've got Navy Department Naval
Research Laboratory, Washington DC. From
the Director Naval Research Laboratory
to Professor GH Eterbrooks via Inspector
of Naval Material, Syracuse, New York.
Subject information on military uses of
hypnosis. Semicolon request for
enclosed three copies of receipt for
classified matter and return addressed
envelope. One, the Naval Research
Laboratory has received a request for
information regarding the possible
military uses of hypnosis. This request
comes from a naval officer who is
primarily interested in hypnosis as a
possible facilitator of training, but
also wishes to know about any other uses
that may have been tested. Members of
the psychology branch of this laboratory
have discussed the matter informally
with several psychologists burst in
hypnosis, including do Dr. Robert White
of Harvard University.
Dr. White, which is where Martin did his
residency, Dr. White thought that you
had done some experimental work on the
question during the war and requested
that the Naval Research Laboratory
communicate with you. If you have done
any work along this line, will you
please let us know the purpose and
results of your investigations? We have
been unable to find any mention of such
a project in the Washington files of the
armed services and so we must trouble
you directly for information. Thank you
for your consideration of this inquiry.
So, we know that we've got uh very
secret documents which are not readily
available to usual classified military
personnel looking through their own
filing system.
So, we know he's not an isolated cook.
We know he had a military appointment.
We know he's connected in to all the
major hypnotists. And we know that he's
claiming from 1943 through to 1971 to
have created men candidates successfully
for operational use in the Second World
War. Is there any other correspondence
that might bear on the reality of his
claims? Well, there's a whole bunch of
correspondence back and forth from
spanning the 1930s to the 1960s, that is
spanning four decades between him and
some guy called J. Edgar Hoover.
So, you'll see on Federal Bureau of
Investigation stationary July 12th,
1939. Dear Dr. Brooks, permit me to
acknowledge receipt of your letters of
June 19th and 27th and July 6th, 1939. I
read with great interest the hypothesis
which you put forth concerning the
sinking of submarines. I realize, of
course, and this was a military use of
hypnosis
scheme for sinking submarines. I
realize, of course, that you are only
suggesting things that could conceivably
happen upon the basis of your
experiments and the experimentation of
others. And you're not suggesting that
such a situation actually did occur in
any of the recent submarine disasters.
1962. Dear Dr. Esster Brooks, your
letter of February 27th with enclosures
has been received and it was good of you
to advise me of the symposium you have
scheduled. I appreciate you're inviting
us to participate. However, the pressure
of official business will not permit me
to designate a representative to attend.
Now, in between those two letters,
there's massive correspondence back and
forth between uh Jed Khoover and Esther
Brooks. There's visits of FBI personnel
to Esbrooks. There's many military and
uh FBI psychological warfare personnel
attending various workshops and symposia
of Estherbrooks and there's overt
discussion of offenses uses of hypnosis
in clandestine operations. So from this
I conclude that probably JHester Brooks
actually did create multiple personality
disorder in Second World War and an
awful lot of people knew about it.
Okay. Well, maybe it was just G. Chester
Brooks and that was the end of the
story.
We got to have some other body of
evidence that indicates that this
continued beyond the Second World War.
And this is material that's not in your
packet that's from this uh Operation
Bluebird and Artichoke CIA mind control
research from 1951 to 53. And I'm just
going to read you some uh artichoke and
bluebird documents that I obtained
through the Freedom of Information Act.
A lot of stuff is whited out. So I'll
just say a blank whenever it's necessary
to do so. To the files on 6th April
1954, Tuesday, SI and H. I haven't
figured out what SI is. H means
hypnosis, experimentation, and research
was carried on in building 13 with the
following subjects present. Mrs. blank,
blank, and blank in addition to Miss
Blank, blank, and blank attended in a
consultant capacity. Uh, one of these
misses was age 19. According to the
documents, the session opened with a
slow induction for all hands and then a
subsequent reinduction for Miss Blank to
enable her to reconstruct a strange
dream she had had the previous week.
This was successful, although in the
wake state she could not she could
remember no details. The major
experiment of this evening of the
evening was then conducted as follows.
Miss Blank was taken to room 23 under
full hypnosis. And she was instructed by
the writer that she would find a secret
document in or on Mr. X uh as desk in
the room. She was told that she was to
conceal this document next to her person
and then return to room 21, operations
room, pour herself a drink of water,
which she would find on the bookcase,
and stretch out on the sofa, face down,
and go into a deep sleep. She was
instructed she would not awaken under
any circumstances. She was told she
would only awaken if someone whispered
to her a specific code word and would
recall nothing except sleeping on the
couch. Blank performed the entire test
in exact detail as outlined above and
had no subsequent memory whatsoever of
any of this activity. During the
experiment, Blank was taken to the same
room by Blank and she was told that a
person whom she had never seen had taken
a secret document from the agency. She
was told that this person or the
suspected person had been given a drug
and was unconscious on the sofa in room
21. She was told she was to enter the
room and find the document which would
probably be on the person on the sofa.
She was given specific instructions that
she must locate the document. She was
told if she found the document to
conceal it on her person, and return to
room 23, sit in a chair, and go at once
into a deep sleep. She was further told
she would have no memory of anything
except falling asleep. Blank complied in
specific detail and immediately
discovered the document in Blank's
sweater sleeve. Blank concealed the
document on her person, returned to room
23, and at once went into a deep sleep.
Subsequently, she was brought back into
the operations room, and she and Blank
were awakened. The experiment was
carried off successfully, particularly
by Blank, who had entire amnesia for the
work and cannot even recall it under
hypnosis. Blank, however, was able to
remember certain parts, although some of
her details seem vague.
Here's another
separate artichoke document.
Uh, three agents might be given cover
stories while they're hypnosis and not
only learn them faultlessly, but believe
them. Every detail could be made to sink
in. The conviction and apparent
sincerity with which an individual will
defend a false identity given as a
post-hypnotic suggestion is almost
unbelievable. One's memory for detail
under such conditions appears to be
boundless. Analogous case number three.
A CIA security office employee was
hypnotized and given a false identity.
She defended it hotly, denying her true
name and rationalizing with conviction
the possession of identity cards made
out to her real self. Later, having had
the false identity erased by suggestion,
she was asked if she had ever heard of
the name she had been defending as her
own 5 minutes before. She thought, shook
her head, and said, "That's a pseudo if
I ever heard one." Apparently, she had a
true amnesia for the entire episode.
Four, hypnosis would permit the
recruitment and handling of highle
political action agents, in particular,
under ideal control. convictions could
be reinforced. Clinical courses
suggested appointments influenced and
with a really good subject only the
imagination and skill of the handling
operator and the inherent limitations of
hypnosis as a technique would limit the
possibilities. Double agents could both
be discovered and used with much higher
degree of assurance if hypno hypnotic
control sufficient to permit regression
were operative. They could be given
suggestions which would have the force
of true compulsions to tell if
approaches made, targets, briefing, true
identity, etc. There is also the
possibility that such persons could be
used under a control much stronger than
any we now possessed
and now so that's experimental use it's
clearly creation of manurian candidates
there's no question whatsoever this is
now operational use on the United States
to director of security uh this is not
mentioning candidates but it's uh use of
sodium mammoth and hypnosis for creation
of amnesia barriers and insertion
deliberate insertion of false memories
to director of security via d deputy
director of security via chief security
research staff from blank subject report
of artichoke operations 20 to 23 January
between Thursday 20 January and Sunday
23 January 1955 the so which means
security office artichoke team conducted
the special operation blank in the
opinion of team members and
participating case officers of the blank
the artichoke operation was successful.
Details follow. It should be noted at
this point that because these operations
were the first artich choke operations
undertaken in the United States, which
is a violation of the CIA's charter, the
full names of those participating are
admitted from this report and will not
be revealed without consent of the
security office. First names, titles, or
pseudonyms will be used throughout this
report. In view of the highly sensitive
nature of the artichoke techniques and
in view of the fact that this was the
first artich choke operation carried out
in the United States, the operation was
conducted blank. This safe house is far
removed from surrounding neighbors in a
large tract of land and is thoroughly
isolated. A limited and security cleared
household staff maintained functions of
the house and messing was by unwitting
blank. Actual artichoke operations were
as usual carried out in a special area
on the second floor of the house and
neither the household staff nor the
blank were permitted in the area during
any of the processing. SSD division
furnished one security officer during
the entire period of the operation to
act as special guard and to handle any
unusual situations which were arose
during the operation. This guard is here
and after referred to as blank in this
report. For matter of record, it should
be noted that the subject was not a
confinement problem and has been at all
times fully cooperative. Guard detail
was not present in connection with the
subject except in a general sense.
Technical matters in the case were
handled entirely by the TBPSD under the
personal supervision of blank. Full tape
recordings were made of the entire case
and tapes are to be turned over to the
participating division in the immediate
future. It should be noted that during
this particular operation, a special
device was used in uh conjunction with
the recording. This device, which is
easily concealable, worked with
remarkable efficiency, and at no time
during the entire recording was there
any break due to technical failure. It
should also be noted that a complex
two-way transmitting receiving unit was
again used in this artichoke operation.
Cover for the actual operation followed
standard procedure. The subject was
informed in general terms that before
being sent for further work, it was
necessary that certain tests be made on
him physically and psychologically for
our protection as well as his. Hence, a
complete physical and psychiatric
psychological examination was required.
Subject rarely accepted this medical
cover and the artichoke technique was
introduced easily and with full consent
of the subject. the case. Prior to the
actual commencement of artichoke
operations, a number of conferences had
been held with the various participating
personnel involved. All hands had been
briefed and procedures had been worked
out. A general time schedule was
prepared and operating instructions for
artichoke were issued. On the afternoon
of 20 January, the subject and case
offer blank. They were met blank of the
interested division under a covert car.
subject was taken to the blank, arriving
there at approximately 9:30 p.m. Prior
to this, that is during the day of
Thursday, 20 January, the technical
equipment had been checked out and
installed, and Blank had arrived at the
covert area at approximately 8:00 p.m.
for operational purposes. By previous
arrangement, the blank was picked up by
Blank at approximately 9:30 p.m. Blank
was brought to the safe house at 10:50
p.m. Shortly after the arrival of Blank,
a preliminary conference began at
approximately 11:10 p.m. with the
subject. Interrogation lasted until
12:25 when all except the subject blank
left the operations room. Tape recording
was cut off at this time. As a result of
this interview, Blank stated that
subject's mental and physical condition
was good and noted that the pulse, which
is actually the blood pressure at 12:25
p.m. was 120 over 80.
So these guys are not total wizards.
Doctor also commented he had noted an
increased amount of talk after a drink
of whiskey. And although there was some
nervousness present, it was not
excessive. Blank stated he had given
subject 2 g penobarbatl to use in
assisting the subject to sleep. And it
was later confirmed the subject had
taken these prior to going to sleep.
Uh half paragraph is whited out. Because
of this successful penetration and
because of the extremely high quality of
information with the subject which the
subject was obtaining, the case is
regarded as most sensitive and important
by the participating division. Since the
subject's information had been checked
and cross-cheed many times by the
operating division's case officers and
division was of the uniform opinion that
the subject was fully legitimate and
fully cooperating with our efforts. They
however desired artichoke to give added
assurance to the subject story and to
help them determine absolute suitability
for further use of the subject in his
work. For the record, it should be noted
that no polygraph techniques had been
applied in this case since a physical
examination in blank by apparently a
cleared physician had indicated too much
nervousness for successful polygraph
testing. Following established patterns
and using medical cover as explained
above, the blank began the physical
psychological examination at 10:00 a.m.
on the morning of Friday, 21 January.
This examination continued until 1 p.m.
when an hour was taken for lunch. At 2
p.m., blank again continued the general
examination of the subject with blank
being used as before lunch as
interpreter. This examination lasted
until 3 p.m. when the blank concluded
the first medical session and a portable
polygraph was taken in by blank for the
purpose of polygraph testing. There's a
bunch of blanked out stuff. On Saturday,
22nd January 1955, subject had breakfast
with Blank. At 9:35 a.m. 35 a.m., Blank
arrived at the safe house. And at 9:45
a.m., Blank arrived. At 10:35 a.m., the
subject again with Blank act acting as
interpreter. Was examined briefly by the
Blank.
At 10:50 a.m., the blank left the
operations area and blank began
polygraph testing. This examination
lasted until 12:37, boy, when it was
concluded.
Then it goes on. I'll skip a little bit
about uh
the subject was taken into the special
operations room with only the blank
present and at 2:36 p.m. the first
introvenous uh infusion began. Slow
injections were continued until 2:46
p.m. when the blank signaled that the
subject was fully affected by the
chemicals. And at this time, special
recording and transmitting equipment was
brought into the operations room. Also,
at this time, Blank left the room and
Blank entered from this point until
approximately 4:15 p.m. Then the
interrogations end. When the
interrogations ended, artichoke
techniques were applied. These
techniques which followed a previously
agreed upon plan were in three stages. A
this is now deliberate implantation of
false memories. A fantasy which blank
results during this phase were good and
sub the subject had no control. Time
approximately 15 to 20 minutes. B a
fantasy in which blank results were
again very good. Time approximately 40
to 45 minutes. C. Following development
of the fantasies, as noted above, the
subject was more or less directly
interrogated by blank and blank induced
blank. Results only fair, although the
subject had little control, time
approximately 15 minutes.
Immediately following the conclusion of
the artichoke treatments, a general
conference was held with all hands
present. It was agreed at this time that
further artich choke treatments were
unnecessary that results were conclusive
that in view of the subject's
importance, additional work with
chemicals or with the H technique might
possibly antagonize the subject and
hence would be unwarranted and unwise.
Following the conclusion of the general
discussion, all technical apparatus was
removed from the premise premises and
all participants personnel except blank
left the area after the blank had
checked the subject. On Sunday, 23
January, and between 12:00 noon and
approximately 1:30 p.m., the blank
returned to the safe house and again
re-examined the physical and mental
condition of the subject. At this time,
the subject reported he had slept fairly
well, but he had a persistent headache.
The blank pointed out that the headache
was a natural consequence of the quotes
examination quotes, and it would
gradually disappear. In addition, the
blank wrote a prescription to be picked
up in another name, which was for future
use of the subject as a general
sedative. At 1:50 p.m. approximately
blank left the safe house and subject
was turned over for handling to case
officers of his participating division.
Conclusions in the opinion of the
artichoke team artichoke team the
operation was profitable and successful.
In this case the subject was aware that
he had been given certain types of
solutions but as to what he had been
given or amounts given he had no
knowledge. Checks were made by blank and
later blank apparently indicated that
the subject although not having specific
amnesia for the artichoke treatment
nevertheless was completely confused in
memory was vague and faulty. This
vagueness and failure of memory was
intensified by the blank explanation
that the subject had been dreaming. An
opinion which it appears the subject
shared at least in part.
So that's obviously uh operational use
of sophisticated mind control,
amnesia inducing and false memory
implanting techniques in the United
States in the 1950s by the CIA
and as part of a broad program of mind
control research, experimentation and
operational use which included the
creation of Manurion candidates.
So this is why I say that I conclude
that uh I conclude that it's an
established fact
that the CIA and the military have been
creating Manurian candidates for
operational use sec since the Second
World War at least into the 1950s and
that it's uh not plausible denial in my
mind to claim that it all stopped in
1973.
Okay. So how did this whole network
get constructed and how does it work and
how is it supported? Well, we're going
to take several steps beyond Oliver
Stone in terms of level of conspiracy
theory, but that's not the point of the
talk. The conspiracy theory is
interesting to get into. But what I
actually believe is that there isn't a
conspiracy. I think that the
intelligence community is itself a
polyfragmented entity with did and that
there is no single executive host
function and that there is no little
room where everybody's got it all
planned out and under control that it
works as sort of a neural network with
no executive host function and that
these old boys talk to these old boys
who know this who don't know this who
know that so it's this kind of network
model and that's what you see in this
slide and all these slides are going to
look like this so I'm going I'll walk
you now through all of the
interconnections in this network as I
said all of which are documented
and tell you about some of the history
and talk about some of the ethical
problems that arise.
So as a matter of general background now
this slide is called funding funds
fronts for CIA mind control research.
MK Ultra you've already seen was from
1953 to 1963. The major funding fronts
for MK Ultra were the human ecology
foundation that uh Carl Rogers was on
was on the board of the Josiah Macy Jr.
Foundation and the Gashiker fund.
Charles Gashikar is one of the MK Ultra
contractors himself.
So what would happen is the CIA would
have its budget. It would pop money over
the Human Ecology Foundation. The Human
Ecology Foundation would put out a call
for grants and people would then submit
applications. So it looks like a normal
funding foundation and some people were
as I said were unwitting and just
thought they were applying for a grant
and other people knew perfectly well
that it was a front. The technical term
for these kind of fronts is a cutout. So
human ecology Josiah Macy Jr. and
Kashikar were CIA cutouts.
Now
this Kashik fund was interesting. One of
the MK Ultra projects that they funded
was uh construction of an the Gorman
annex at George Washington University
Hospital in uh Washington.
And since they're you have to remember
that the military and the CIA are
federal bureaucracies. So you anticipate
the behavior of federal bureaucracies in
general when you're looking into their
history and operations. So what they did
was they through MK Ultra they funded to
Gashiker who then funded out to the
contractor money to build the Gorman
annex as an addition to the hospital.
Since this was money coming from a
private foundation it generated matching
funds from another sector of the federal
government. So the CIA got to double its
budget by sucking money out of unwitting
uh civilian areas of the federal purse.
What was the Gorman annex for? It was
for um mind control chemical
experimentation on terminal cancer
patients. Three uh career officer CIA
biochemists were employed at the Gorman
Andics under full cover.
This is not really completely above
board and ethical behavior.
Uh so Carl Rogers is on the board of the
human ecology foundation is himself an
MK Ultra contractor and his specific
project. So I've got his MK Ultra grant
application.
I've got him on the board of the Human
Ecology Foundation. I've got a
description of the project that was
funded through MK Ultra. And I've got
the publication flowing from the project
that exactly matches the grant
application. And in the published paper,
he acknowledges funding by the human
ecology foundation. So it's a completely
documented closed loop.
Okay. Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation. Who is
on the board of the Josiah Macy Jr.
Foundation? An interesting fellow named
Daniel X Friedman. Daniel X Friedman was
the editor of the archives of general
psychiatry from 197 until his death in
1993. The archives of general psychiatry
uh is the most referenced psychiatric
journal in the world by far. In other
words, if you do citation index searches
of references of psychiatry papers in
published psychiatry papers, that is
it's an indexing of the publications in
all the psychiatry journals in the
world.
The number of references to articles
published in the archives of journal
psychiatry is seven times, if I have the
number right, the next psychiatry
journal in the world. So this is the
number one great big place to publish.
It's very biomedical reductionist and
it's virtually impossible to get a
dissociative paper published in there.
So these people like Daniel Freriedman
who are in network
are incredibly influential, powerful,
controlling people in terms of the
history of psychiatry, what gets funded,
what gets reviewed, what gets published,
who gets appointments, etc., etc., etc.
It's all part of a very tight power
structure network.
Okay, now MK Ultra connects us up to
Alan Dulles, which connects us back to
human ecology over to Harold Wolf and
back to Alan Dulles. How does that work?
Allan Dulles is was the director of the
CIA from 1953 to 1961. He's the longest
uh running tenure as DCI, director of
central intelligence.
In uh the Second World War, he was
employed by the OSS, Office of Strategic
Services, which is the precursor of the
CIA, which was run by a guy called Wild
Bill Donovan.
And he was stationed in Switzerland and
was heavily involved in obviously since
the enemy was the Germans and the allies
were the Russians in the war. He was
supposed to be working with the Russians
against the Germans, which he did.
However, when you read the history of
the OSS and the Second World War, in the
last years of the war, the Cold War was
already being deliberately planned out
and set up by the intelligence agencies.
And it was already apparent to the
intelligence agencies that things were
going to flip, that Germany would become
the allies and the Russians would become
the enemies. And there's an awful lot of
jocking about whether the Germans were
going to surrender in North Italy before
the Russians got to Yugoslavia. And so
there's now negotiations with the
Germans that if they agreed to surrender
early before the Russians got there,
then there would be such and such a
payoff, which would secure the area for
the allies so that it wouldn't be taken
over by the Russians. There's all this
jockeying going on, all this intrigue
and uh communication between the OSS and
some of Hitler's generals.
The archeneemy spy master that Allan
Dulles was fighting against was Reinard
Galen who is head of German intelligence
in the uh Eastern Front which means
Russia.
At the end of the Second World War, Alan
Dulles recruited Reinhardt Galen to
become the head of that division of the
CIA's operations against Russia.
This is a totally established fact.
Harold Wolf is a guy who is the head of
the human ecology foundation who is a
neurologist at Cornell. When Alan
Dulles's son received a head wound in
the Korean War, he was brought back to
the United States and treated by Harold
Wolf. So, you start to get a feel of why
I call this an old boy network.
Okay, here let's come down here. We're
MK Ultra and we're over at
Hallucinogens.
So there's a lot of MKL for sub projects
that had to do with funding LSD and
other hallucinogen research.
Uh person who did hallucinogen research
and published a lot of hallucinogen
research was Daniel Freriedman.
Uh hallucinogen research also connects
us down to Loretta Bender. So Loretta
Bender is a much revered uh author of
the Bender Gestalt.
Now look at these three names. Loretta
Bender, Paul Hawk and Euan Cameron.
You'll see that each of these names
uh wait a minute who are missing and you
imagine what it's like for my secretary
trying to make these slides.
They're all supposed to connect to the
American Journal of Psychiatry
obituaries. Ean Cameron had his obituary
in the American Journal of Psychiatry.
Paul Hawk had his obituary in the
American Journal of Psychiatry and
Loretta Bender had her obituary in the
American Journal of Psychiatry. So these
are revered people who are being
honoredly
by the flagship journal of the American
Psychiatric Association.
And it's actually Stella Chess who
writes the obituary for uh Loretta
Bender. Very glowing. What a wonderful
contributor to child psychiatry. What a
pioneer. Well, she forgot to mention in
the obituary that in a publication that
I have in my Loretta Bender file that I
got out of the medical school library,
Loretta Bender describes giving 150
micrograms of LSD per day to children
aged 7 to 11 years of age for days,
weeks, months, and in some cases even
years in a row. And this is discussed at
a CIA sponsored symposium on LSD.
Uh this would not get through an ethics
committee. Loretta Bender describes
giving 150 micrograms of LSD per day to
children aed 7 to 11 years of age for
days, weeks, months, and in some cases
even years in a row. And this is
discussed at a CIA sponsored symposium
on LSD.
Uh this would not get through an ethics
committee.
Paul Hawk.
Anybody ever heard of a disorder called
borderline personality disorder?
Hawen Politan 1949 psychiatric quarterly
pseudonneurotic forms of schizophrenia.
These people are on the borderline
between psychosis and schizoph neurosis
and schizophrenia. We call it
pseudonurotic schizophrenia because
they're on the borderline.
It's one of the reasons why the word
borderline caught on. Well, he did a
hallucinine research at uh in New York
for the military and had one unfortunate
complication and side effect. He killed
Harold Blau, a tennis pro in 1953 with
an injection of army masculine
and the family was eventually
compensated for that. And he's a big-
time connected into all of the uh
hallucinogen research by the military
and the CIA and is at many different CIA
sponsored conferences. Euan Cameron,
former uh head of the Quebec Psychiatric
Association, the Canadian Psychiatric
Association, the American Psychiatric
Association, the World Psychiatric
Association, in fact the founder of the
World Psychiatric Association, and also
one time president of the Society for
Biological Psychiatry. as politically
connected a guy as ever existed in the
entire field of psychiatry in the 20th
century. Whiz's obituary in the American
Journal of Psychiatry,
funded through MK Ultra and the Human
Ecology Foundation,
did LSD and other hallucinogen research
funded by uh Canadian military and the
CIA and um was successfully sued. He had
already died. The CIA was settled out of
court. actually wasn't a successful suit
technically with uh eight of his
patients who had been victims of
experimentation that was first funded
directly by the CIA through the human
ecology and then by the Canadian
government.
Uh when one of his subjects is called uh
one of his papers published in the
American journal of psychiatry is on
psychic driving. Another is on
production of differential amnesia in
schizophrenia.
I interviewed a woman named Linda
McDonald who's identified in public.
This is not a uh problem with violation
of her confidentiality and I have
released from her to talk about her and
write about her. She uh was
25 years old when she went to McGill to
be treated for a relatively mild
postpartum depression.
She turned 26 during her hospitalization
from Mar which was from sometime in
March to early September 1963.
During the course of her
hospitalization, she received 102 ECT
treatments using the Paige Russell
technique in which the button is pushed
six times for treatment instead of one.
She also received uh about 80 days of
barbbiterate and neurolleptic induced
sleep during the course of the
hospitalization. Now, I don't have just
her testimony. I have the actual medical
record with all of the nursing notes
documenting this and you and Cameron's
signature in the chart.
So, this is not rumor or patient
distortion. This is the actual medical
record. And this is work that's been
settled out of court by the CIA.
Um, she comes in as a normal, somewhat
depressed person who on my interview I
would say she probably had DDNOS before
she was admitted.
She gets regressed back to incontinent
of urine, incontinent of feces,
totally disoriented, unable to state her
own name, the year, where she is,
recognize her children, recognize her
husband. She gradually comes out of
this. At the time of discharge, she's
sent home to live with her husband and
children resume normal sexual relations
with her husband. She doesn't know how
to drive a car, read, cook, use a
toilet.
Not only does she not know exactly what
sex is all about, and she's not exactly
sure who her husband is, she doesn't
know what the concept of a husband is.
So, she neurosychologically pulls out of
this over months. And several months
down the road, she's at the point where
the full-time homemaker has taught her
how to scramble eggs. was a fully
competent housewife and mother before
this. When her children go out to play
on the street, she's unable to remember
30 seconds later where they are. So, she
puts a map of the neighborhood up on the
wall and puts pins in the map to keep
track of where her kids are playing.
Otherwise, she goes into a panic and
doesn't know what's going on. By about a
year, she appears to have made a full
neuroscychological recovery. And when I
interview her several years ago in
Vancouver, she appears to be
neurosychologically intact and to be
suffering from no active psychiatric
disorder. The problem is that she can't
remember anything from the time she left
the hospital back to birth.
So this is uh CIA and uh Canadian
military funded research to totally wipe
out somebody's memory which is very
successful. In the published articles on
psychic driving and creation of
differential amnesia and schizophrenia,
the claim is that if you have somebody
who's been delusional for the last 5
years and you give them this quotes
regressive ect, regress them down to
total infantile incompetence and bring
them back up. And while you do that, you
play a lot of tape loops. So they listen
to these looped statements over and over
and over and over and over, hundreds and
hundreds and hundreds of times a day
that they will come back to their normal
waking state and they will have specific
amnesia for the time during which
they've been delusional and for the
delusional material and their
schizophrenia will then be cured. So
this is very careful, deliberate
research to produce specific amnes total
global amnesia.
So we would certainly want to honor that
man in the American Journal of
Psychiatry.
So this is how the funding was set up.
Okay. Let's look at the network for both
the creation of Manurian candidates and
the denial of the existence of Manurian
candidates. How is that structured?
Because you would think it might be
logical to have a just information
program in place.
It's a little I think we can Nancy, are
you going to be the adjuster on the
focus again there?
A little drift on the focus there.
It's always hard to tell from the front.
Okay.
Now, like any complex system, it's sort
of arbitrary where you enter the system,
but let's enter at MK Ultra, which we
saw is connected to Bluebird and
Artichoke. Both of those are connected
to the CIA. The CIA is highly connected
to military intelligence structurally
committee cross references and
cooperation in many of these documented
mind control research projects.
Okay. So in the uh Senate committee
hearings in the 1970s about MK Ultra,
John Giddinger, who was the head PhD
psychologist in uh MK Ultra, testified
that the creation of mentoring
candidates and the movie the mentoring
candidate, which he referred to in his
testimony, were just fiction. That's
ridiculous and that had never been done.
But we see that MK Ultra, on which he
was the lead psychologist, was actually
administrative rollover from Bluebird
and Artichoke. And we've just read
material in which they explicitly are
describing clear creation of venture in
candidates. So it's not possible that he
didn't know that.
So the the options here are either he
was so out of it that he didn't realize
that that was Manurion candidates that
were being created there
or he was somehow administry out of
administratively out of the loop and
never even looked at the blooper
nardichoke documents which is fairly
unbelievable or it's deliberate
disinformation.
Well, let's go from the CIA up here to
military intelligence over to Esther
Brooks. Okay, we've got Esther Brooks
actually creating Manurion candidates.
So, that's Manurion candidate creation,
which goes back to Bluebird and
Artichoke. So, we've got that loop
already discussed. Let's hop from CIA to
Martin. Well, we saw in the original
list of MK Ultra consultants that Martin
was funded through that and had top
secret clearance. When you look at
Martin Orn's CV, he lists in his CV
numerous military intelligence funding
sources, virtually all branches of the
military. And he in his publications uh
cites funding by uh Air Force, Army,
Army, I'm pretty sure, Office of Naval
Research, etc., and human ecology.
Uh he also um a u reliable source
informed me that he also uh consulted
the National Security Agency. So he
basically consulted with all branches of
the military intelligence and civilian
intelligence network. He also has taken
the position since at least 1984 in
public that multiple personality
disorder is almost all the time agroenic
artifact.
and he's debated this viciferously at
the APA annual meetings from 1988 on and
has published a lot of discussion and
commentary on this in the international
journal of clinical experimental
hypnosis.
So his basic position is that MPD is
created by the therapist.
Now why would he think this and believe
this given that he's totally connected
into military intelligence. He's one of
the leading experts in hypnosis. He's a
friend of correspondent of he's edited
by and he references GH Esster Brooks
who is also one of the leading hypnosis
experts at the same time also is tightly
tied into military intelligence and
Esther Brooks knows those other people
like Milton Ericson and Hillgard who are
all totally interconnected by their
common work and references.
Well, Martin Norton might believe that
all these civilian did cases are
actually
did because that's the universe he's
grown up in. He can't step outside his
own knowledge of the creation of
mentoring candidates by the military to
conceive of the idea that it might arise
naturalistically. So, it's basically
projection or lack of intellect. It's
unlikely to be lack of intellect because
Martin does not lack intellect. The fact
that he was too dumb to get it is
totally implausible because he's a very
bright guy. So that explanation we can
rule out. And the other explanation is
deliberate disinformation. There's no
way to discriminate between those
hypotheses or test them with the
available data.
Okay. So Martin says that DID isrogenic.
Oh, what's this thing over here? FMSF.
False memory syndrome foundation. Well,
isn't this funny? Martin Or is on the
scientific advisory board of the False
Memory Syndrome Foundation. And the
False Memory Syndrome Foundation clearly
promotes the idea that DIG did the idea
is either almost entirely or 100%
entirely anatogenic artifact.
Where does that take us down to? Oh,
that takes us to Manurion candidate
denial. Okay, that's done specifically
by Richard Ashi, who is a scientific
advisory board member of the False
Memory Syndrome Foundation in his book
Making Monsters, where he ridicules me
as a CIA conspiracy nut, who believes
that the CIA has been creating multiple
personality disorder, which in fact is a
documented fact.
Uh, here we are. Let's skip back to
here. We're at the CIA and we're at MK
Ultra. We're missing another connection
here. should go MK Ultra to Jolly West,
but CIA connects to Jolly West because
he was funded under MK Ultra to study
the psychobiology of dissociation.
And he's will probably go down in
history for being the only person to
kill an elephant at Oklahoma City Zoo
with LSD.
>> Well, Jolly West is going to show up on
a bunch of subsequent slides. So, what
we're looking at is two-dimensional
slices of a three or n dimensional
space. So, you're going to see Jolly
West connects out to here and off the
screen and up and down and around the
back of the screen and so on. One place
that he connects is here to here. Now,
where did he start off in his
professional career? He started off as a
top secret cleared guy for the air force
who interviewed the American pilots who
came back from North Korea having been
captured and brainwashed by the
communist Chinese. These were people who
were real good Americans
who were flying jets who got shot down
by the communist enemy who went to
prison as PS and came back as
communists.
Have we ever heard of anything like this
before in our lives? This is the
creation of a new identity and
suppression of the old identity and all
its allegiances through mind control
coercive persuasion techniques. These
American pilots were Manurion candidates
of a sort without full amnesia for their
previous identity. So they were kind of
a DDNOS level manurian candidate as
opposed to a full DID level manurion
candidate. and he was one of the guys
who interrogated them, understood them,
wrote about them, and wrote about how to
arm future military personnel against
such interrogation.
Uh, Robert Lifton also had top secret
clearance from the Air Force to
interview uh, these down American
pilots. And there's several other people
in the group there, including Margaret
Singer, who wrote the book Cults in Our
Midst, which I talked about as the
foundation for the atrogenic pathway to
DID. She had top secret clearance to
interview these pilots as well. Margaret
Singer publishes with Jolly West and
Margaret Singer publishes with Richard
Ashley who is an expert on course of
mind control and cult persuasion
techniques.
So that's real funny.
Okay, let's go to military intelligence
over to False Memory Syndrome
Foundation. Who's that guy? Oh, what's
that say there? Oh, it says Paul Mchugh.
Who's Paul McHugh? He's the guy who says
that who's chairman of psychiatry at
John's Hopkins who says that 100% of
cases of DID are says that all the
dissociative disorders units should be
shut down. And he's on the advisory
board of the false memory syndrome
foundation. He connects the DID as
theatogenic. He connects to John's
Hopkins because he's the chairman of the
department of psychiatry there. He
connects over to Walter Reed Hospital
because uh when he was in the military,
he did research at Walter Reed Hospital
that's listed in his CV, which is a
major site for military intelligence
work and is directly connected into the
mind control network.
Now, why do I have John's Hopkins
connected to MK Ultra? because a prior
chairman of the department of psychiatry
at Johns Hopkins named James Whitehorn
was on the advisory board of the human
ecology foundation there had a top
secret clearance and was witting that
the human ecology foundation was
actually a funding front for MK Ultra.
So one of his immediate predecessors was
directly in network with top secret
clearance. So again we have now the
research in his CV I haven't actually
gotten the papers out and read it that
he did in the military doesn't look like
mind control research
but then the whole question becomes what
are the hypotheses to account for his
behavior here we have apparently
relatively bright guy who's head of
department in one of the leading medical
schools in the world who just doesn't
get it he thinks that all did isrogenic
is this because he's not smart enough
doesn't seem to be a plausible
explanation
Well, is it because of some sort of
peculiarity of his personal experience
in his psychology that we don't know
about? Maybe.
Maybe it's disinformation.
No way to know. No way to prove it one
way or another. But this is the network
for the creation and the denial of
Manurion candidates. It's very funny
little network.
Okay, let's take a look since we're all
into false memory syndrome foundation
here. Let's to take a look at the
relations between the cult awareness
network and the false syndrome
foundation false memory syndrome
foundation scientific advisory board.
This is going to start taking us out
beyond Oliver Stone. Oliver Stone will
say no this is too much. I'm not making
a movie about this.
There's still hope that we could land at
the X Files though.
Okay. So CAN means the Cult Awareness
Network. CIA means the Central
Intelligence Agency and FMS means the
False Memory Syndrome Foundation.
Uh Jolly West is on the board of CAN and
the False Memory Syndrome Foundation is
connected to the CIA. Margaret Singer is
connected to Jolly West and Richard
Offshi. Margaret Singer and Jolly West
are on the board of CAN and Richard Osi
is on the board of FMSF.
Jolly West and Margaret Singer worked
for Air Force Intelligence uh talking to
those Korean down pilots who are
actually DDNOS level mentoring
candidates.
Uh Leo Ryan, we're going to hear a bunch
about Jonestown in a minute. Leo Ryan is
the congressman who was killed at the
airport in Jonestown at the same time as
the mass suicide there, which was not
actually a suicide. His daughter
Patricia Ryan is very active in the cult
awareness network and recently received
the Leo Ryan award. So Leon Ryan
connects to Jonestown. Jonestown
connects up to the CIA through that loop
because the can is interested in
destructive cults and course of
persuasion. And I'm going to show you in
subsequent slides the connections
between Jonestown and the CIA. Jonestown
connects down to obviously expertise in
cult course of persuasion techniques.
Jim Jones was a big expert. That takes
us back up to Jolly West, Margaret
Singer, Richard Offshi, Air Force
Intelligence, the CIA. So, all this
thing all interconnects here. So, who's
this guy, Robert Heath? Well, we're
going to see him in a future slide, too.
My secretary's actually interviewed him,
and I might go down and interview him in
person myself at two lane in New
Orleans. He did brain electrode implant
research for the CIA. Uh, and so he
would put brain electrodes in human
brains for non- therapeutic purposes.
And then he would pour in psilocybin,
measculine, LSD, and other chemicals to
see what would go tingle tingle in the
electrodes.
And I'll tell you more about that. So
he's funded by the CIA in the military.
In one of his papers, one of his
subjects, he thanks Harold Leaf for
referring in one of his brain electrode
implant research subjects. Harold Leaf
is on the advisory board of the False
Memory Syndrome Foundation and in fact
was personal psychiatrist to the Fried
family.
and all. So all these guys know each
other. I'm just giving you kind of a
sketch of how this thing is constructed.
Okay. So let's now take the step beyond
Oliver Stone.
This is the connections between
Jonestown and the CIA. This is based on
uh references that are in I think it's
the next slide if I remember right.
Okay. The center here we're talking
about the CIA with its interest in mind
control. Now according to this book
which is entitled was Jonestown a CIA
medical experiment by Michael Myers
if according to him Jonestown was a CIA
medical experiment. It was a mind
control research site.
So that seems preposterous and
impossible to believe. What data and
circumstantial evidence add up to that
conclusion?
Well, we know that uh Leo Ryan was
connected to the CIA.
How do we know that? Well, let's take a
look over here in our package.
We'll go back a few pages back from uh
hypnosis comes of age article.
And here we have a letter
from the deputy director of the central
intelligence a agency dated 18th of
October 1978.
Honorable Leo Ryan, House of
Representatives, Washington DC. Dear Mr.
Brian, thank you for your letter of 27th
September to Admiral Turner requesting
confirmation or denial of the fact of
CIA experiments using prisoners at the
California Medical Facility at
Vakavville.
MK search site principal investigator
James Hamilton. It is true that CIA
sponsored that's coming from me for
somebody listening for to the tape not
from the letter. It is true that CIA
sponsored testing using volunteer
inmates was conducted at that facility.
The project was completed in 1968. A
report sending forth the details of that
testing has been released to the
authorities at Bakavville and to the
public. It is enclosed for your
information review. Da da da da da da da
da da da da. Your letter uh oh uh the
research it says at the end of the
paragraph was uh related to learning
enhancement using a well-known non-h
hallucinogen magnesium pemoline or
pemoline which is silert which is used
for ADD. Your letter referred to Donald
Dere known as Sank and Clifford
Jefferson, both of whom were inmates at
Vakavville. In so far as our reports
reflect the names of the participants,
there is nothing to indicate that either
was in any way involved in the project.
You may wish to contact the authorities
at Vakavville for further information.
So Leo Ryan was corresponding directly
with the CIA about some of its mind
control research. He was also the father
of uh pending legislation by which all
CIA covert operations would be subject
to direct congressional oversight from a
budgetary point of view.
I haven't got Charles Manson connected
in
uh
you got to go a long way out there to
get all these connections.
>> Is Charles Manson in Vakavville? Oh, I
didn't know that's where he was. Okay.
Well, I'm going to tell you a bunch
about Vakavville, so it's not surprising
that he's at Vakavville.
So Leo Ryan is really pestering the CIA
to get all their covert operations under
uh direct funding oversight and
budgetary control of Congress. He is
bugging the CIA about their mind control
research. He's found out that Donald
Dreeze was at Vakavl at the same time as
it was a research site. We've seen in
other documentation that that's MK
search and the investigators James
Hamilton who had top secret clearance.
Also, uh, Leo Ryan was involved in
Jonestown because he was killed at the
airport.
Well, that's very funny. How does Leo
Ryan connect down to Patty Hurst? Patty
Hurst was captured by the Simbion
Liberation Army, which was headed by
Donald Def, whose code name was Sank.
She was found guilty. She was actually a
mentor candidate, a DDNOS level
mentoring candidate who is uh
captured. If you don't remember the
story, she's the son of William Randph
Hurst who ran the San Francisco
Chronicle that was running a whole lot
of very critical articles about the
People's Temple, Jim Jones's cult while
still in Yukaya. His daughter Patty
Hurst was a college student who was
captured by the Simbian Liberation Army
at gunpoint with submachine guns, kept
locked in a closet for 42 days and
subjected to very systematic course of
persuasion, brainwashing, and mind
control techniques until she adopted a
new identity named Tanya and lost all of
her emotional connectedness to her prior
life and her parents
participated in the robbery of a bank
and was found guilty. The free Patty
Hurst movement was
headed by Leo Ryan who was very active
in getting clemency for her from the
president.
Okay. What's so Patty first? How does
she connect to Donald Dere? Well, he
captured her. How does Donald Deree
connect to Vakavville while he was at
Veavville as a prisoner?
What is Vakavville? Well, let's hop over
here to Jolly West. That'll help us to
figure out. Oh, yeah. Jolly West. Well,
he was the expert witness in the trial
for Patty Hurst. Who were the expert
witnesses called to explain to the jury
that Patty Hurst was in fact the victim
of course of persuasion, mind control,
and brainwashing? Uh Patty Hurst,
Margaret Singer, uh I mean Patty Hurst
was the defendant. Jolly West, Margaret
Singer, Robert Lifton, and Martin.
So what did Jolly West have to do with
Vakavville? Well, Jolly West was head of
the UCLA Violence Project, which was
approved by Ronald Reagan when he was
governor of California and then shut
down by public protest. It was
spearheaded by a number of people, um,
including some people very interested in
CIA military mind control history, have
written books about it.
Well, the UCLA violence project you're
going to see in subsequent slides, but
it included uh research and
experimentation that was going to be
done at Vakavville prison where they had
the Maxi Maxi, which is the maximum
security place for the most freaked out,
behaviorally disturbed, psychotic,
psychologically difficult inmates in the
California prison system, which included
Donald Freeze and Charles Manson. We
hear
Well, okay. Donald freeze who's
Coloulston Westbrook. Okay. According to
a book on the Phoenix program, which was
the CIA's covert operation in the
Vietnam War for uh killing 20 VC
infrastructure non-military personnel,
headed by William Colby, future director
of the Central Intelligence Agency.
According to that book, Coloulston
Westbrook was a CIA civil war expert in
Vietnam who came back to the United
States to Vakavville prison undercover
of the Black Cultural Association and
used behavior modification techniques on
Donald Dreeze and gave him his code name
sank and devised the seven-headed logo
of the Symbion Liberation Army.
Subsequent to this course of persuasion
work done on Donald Defreeze by this
civil war expert employed by the CIA in
Vietnam, Donald Freeze was transferred
to another location in the jail from
which he very easily escaped the next
day only to go capture Patty Hurst and
use very systematic and sophisticated
mind control techniques on her despite
the fact that he was a functionally
illiterate black person off the streets.
And then two paperbacks which are
published by Avon Books both of which
are owned by the Hurst Corporation.
Douglas Valentine 1990. The Phoenix
program New York Avon Books. And the
specific reference is page 337.
Patty Hurst 1982. The title of the book
is Patty Hurst Her own Own Story New
York Avon Books pages 133 and 134.
Now the person who was going to ask a
question as soon as we started Oh, here
she's coming in I think.
No. So, we're going to get into
Jonestown now, but did you have a
question that you wanted to ask just
before the break? Um,
>> oh, Mark Lane.
>> Oh, Mark Lane. Yeah.
>> Um,
I think I don't know too much about
that. I mean, the political connections
are myriad and tend to be
>> right. The actors are either the far
left or the far right. I agree with
that.
Okay, this is uh from this book was
Jonestown a CIA medical experiment. This
is some general background now. Okay,
this there's this guy James Frank who
won the 1925 Nobel Prize in physics who
came over to be part of the Manhattan
project which created the atomic bomb.
And that's going to that's a sort of
precursor of the paperclip project which
we'll get to in future slides. He
recruited Lawrence Leighton into the
Manhattan project. So that's the
connection between these people. Now
we're going to go to this Leighton
family. This Hugo Phillip and Anita Lee
Halbut uh married in Germany in 1914 and
they uh moved to the United States. They
had these two daughters, uh, Eva and,
uh, Lisa,
and these are their, um, this is Lisa's
birth date here.
Lisa is this person. Lisa Eva doesn't
really figure into the story. Lisa
worked for the CIA at Berkeley. The
author of this book was Jonestown, a CIA
medical experiment. got all this
information from the public record by
just piecing it together bit by bit by
bit by bit and the documentation in the
references is pretty solid and
convincing. So she worked for the CIA at
Berkeley uh and her job at the library.
Her job was to keep track of all the
left-wing literature uh taken out of the
library and the names of the people who
took it those books out and report that
to the CIA.
Uh Berkeley's got a lot of really
top-notch people at it such as Richard
Ashi.
Lisa Leighton Lisa married uh Lawrence
Leighton who is recruited to the
Manhattan project by James Frank. He
later worked at Dougway proving ground
where uh radiation experiments were done
including release of radioactivity
uh for wind dispersal over civilian
populations. He was an expert in
dispersal of biological and chemical
weapons and that Dougway proven ground
was also one of the sites where Army LSD
research was conducted.
So this couple had four children uh
Deborah who murdered married Phil Blakey
murdered she almost murdered him
Lawrence Jr. Anisa and Thomas and these
two are not so involved in the picture.
Uh Lawrence Jr. was on site at the
people's temple. Uh Lisa was on site at
the People's Temple in Jonestown in
British Guyana and Deborah was on site
there and she was the chief financial
officer for the people's temple
operation. She left Jonestown shortly
before the mass suicide and went back to
the uh Georgetown, the capital of
British Ghana, accompanied by the uh CIA
chief of station for Georgetown.
Uh Phil Blakey was an interesting guy
with a international arm sales and
British intelligence background if I
remember right.
Now here this gets this is where it
really starts to get convincing and
amazing.
So we've all heard about Jonestown. We
all know that Jim Jones had this group
of people and he was in Yukaya,
California and then all of a sudden he
moved to the middle of the jungle in
British Ghana. And I assume we all had
the same experience I had. We just sort
of take that at face value. Here's this
nut. He moves down to the middle of the
jungle in British Ghana. But like, how
did he ever choose that location? Who
scouted it out? Like, what about the
logistics of getting all the lumber, all
the oil drums, all the everything down
to the middle of the jungle in British
Gana? You got to build an airport. You
got to trans. This is a huge, huge
project.
Well, it turns out that this wasn't just
jungle before the People's Temple
arrived. It was the Shalom project from
1973 to 1975
and Phil Blakey oversaw the engineering
development of the site in its
transition from the Shalom project to
the people's temple. What was the Shalom
project? It was a CIA operation for
training black mercenary guerillas for
operations in Angola. This was a CIA
training site. This was not a random
unconnected site.
That's just some general background.
Okay, we're going to go we're going to
pick up Jonestown kind of as we bop
along here through these crystal clear
slides.
Okay, we've heard part of the story.
We've got here's Jay Edgar Hoover. He's
corresponding with EstherBooks who's
creating mentoring candidates. Patty
Hurst is a mentoring candidate. Her
identity of Tanya is deliberately
programmed in by Donald Defes who's from
Vakavville State Prison which is an MK
search site which is also a site for the
UCLA violence project. Vakavville is a
CIA research site. Uh Patty Hurst is
connected down to Jolly West who's her
expert witness in her trial who says in
effect she's a mentoring candidate the
DNOS level. Uh he's the expert witness
for Jack Ruby.
Let's come back. Oh, Jack Ruby, some of
you may recall, is connected to Lee
Harvey Oswald in U. I went to the one of
the JFK assassination
uh meetings in Dallas a couple years ago
where a guy presented a bunch of
information including a photocopy of a
letter by Jed Jed Garoover dated 1960
expressing concern that Lee Harvey
Oswald had been doubled.
uh the FBI was on top of Lee Harvey
Oswald, knew who he was and was tracking
him uh systematically well before the
assassination. So that that connects Jay
Garver to Lee Harvey Oswald which
connects over to Jack Ruby.
Okay. How does Wounded Knee get in
there? Wounded Knee is the Indian
uprising where the FBI were shooting up
to sue Indians. Russell Means was
heavily involved in that. What does
Russell Means have to do with Jonestown?
Well, Jim Jones
uh was a good PR guy. When Patty Hurst
was kidnapped,
he he offered William Randolph Hurst uh
a program to set up u collection of
money, a donation of money to pay the
ransom for the SLA, the Simines
Liberation Army. And the SLA was
demanding this huge multi like something
like $170 million from William Randph
Hurst for the release of Patty Hurst.
Jim Jones offered to set up this fund,
but William Randph Hurst said no. The
net outcome was that the SLA also wanted
food donated to the poor people that
they thought they were representing in
the revolution. So, a committee was set
up to do food distribution financed by
William Randall Hurst. According to this
book, the way that food distribution was
done was Jim Jones got control of the
mechanism and he brought people from the
people's temple down to be the homeless
and poor people who received the food
and the same food was redistributed
around the network six times constantly
being picked up by new people's temple
people taken back to the distribution
point. So actually only one sixth as
much food was purchased as it appeared
and the rest was skimmed by the people's
temple.
Russell Means was on the committee that
oversaw this operation. And Russell
Means's wife was bailed out of jail in
Oregon the year before uh at a cost of
$19,000 by Jim Jones.
>> Disney.
>> Who was working for Disney?
>> Russell Beans works for Walt Disney.
Well, that's nice to know.
So, this arrow actually goes over here
to Mickey Mouse.
Okay. So we're we did Vakavville State
Prison, MK Search, that's all connected
into uh
Patty Hurst, Donald Def. We've got that
part. We've got MK Ultra connected to
UCLA. What's that MK Ultra got to do
with that Sugi U2 base? That's the U2
spy plane. Well, that's uh according to
information from JFK assassination
researchers that I haven't independently
confirmed, that was one of the MK Ultra
sites. Lee Harvey also was stationed
there.
Uh U2 was the plane that Gary Powers
went down in. It was a spy plane that
oversaw uh overflew the Soviet Union. It
was also used uh for sale surveillance
of Martin Luther King. That's a
acknowledged fact. The FBI used U2
airplanes to keep track of him.
According to um a book which is a little
shaky in terms of its documentation,
the people who were consulted on the
mental state of Gary Powers, the pilot
of the U2 that was down included Euan
Cameron, who was an MK Ultra contractor,
uh who did the experimentation on Linda
McDonald that I told you about earlier.
Ean Cameron was also one of the people
who went over and interviewed the Nazi
war criminals at Nerburgg to do mental
status exams on them.
So the FBI is in there fairly tight.
Let's just talk about MK Ultra MK search
assassination connection. So this is now
out beyond Oliver Stone and we're going
to pick up uh JFK, a little bit of
Jonestown, a little bit of this and that
here. So we've got MK search. Carl
Feifer was contractor for MK search and
MK Ultra. One of the sites that he
worked at is the New Jersey Reformatory
at Bordontown, which was in some of
those preliminary MK Ultra lists that I
showed. Now, in Walter Board's book, um,
Mind Control, Operation Mind Control, he
talks about Louisie Castillo. Louisie
Castillo was arrested by the FBI, the
Philippines equivalent of the FBI on
suspicion of being there to assassinate
Marcos.
In um uh 300 pages of transcripts of the
interrogation of Louis Castillo by the
Philippines FBI that's in the possession
of the JSK assassination researcher who
told me where Ghostster Brook's personal
papers are. Louisie Castillo uh
describes very clearly and this is also
described in Walter Bor's book having
multiple personality disorder.
So here's a potential assassin of Marcos
who describes undocumented multiple
personality disorder who was at the New
Jersey Reformatory at Bordontown at the
same time as was an MK search
hallucinogen site and an MK Ultra
hallucinogen site.
We've got
Lee Harvey Oswald who's at at Sugi Air
Force Base, which is apparently an MK
Ultra research site, who's connected
over to Jack Ruby, who's connected to
Jolly West, who's an MK Ultra
contractor, who's the expert witness for
Patty Hurst, whose uh Manurian candidate
identity, Tanya, is created by Donald
Shre from Vakville State Prison, which
was an MK search site, which takes us
back to the New Jersey Reformatory at
Bordontown. This is all just random
coincidence as I'm sure you appreciate.
Okay. How about JFK CIA mind control
research connections? I I might come
back to Jonestown in more detail. I'm
just trying to get through all these
slides here. Cool. This is a very pretty
little diagram with CIA at the hub and
then we've basically got a wheel going
all the way around.
There's a game that I saw in the
newspaper called uh I don't know the
exact name of it but it's basically who
was in a movie with Kevin Bacon and it
turn the purpose of the game is and you
can name any Hollywood star and within
six steps you can get for that person to
Kevin Bacon because this person was in a
movie with this person who was in a
movie with Kevin Bacon. So this is same
logic here. We we can start anywhere. We
can connect Jolly West to the CIA. Neil
Burch is a CIA uh air force military
office of naval research uh mind control
consultant in Houston.
Uh Robert Heath is a CIA and military uh
funded brain electrode researcher at
Tulain.
Well, let's just go through this random
assortment of individuals here.
Okay. Robert Heath is doing brain
electrode implant and other research for
the CIA in Tulain. He publishes a paper
with Bernie Saltsburg.
Bernie Saltsburg publishes with Neil
Burch who's funded by the CIA in the
military. Neil Burch publishes an edited
book. Contributor of a chapter to that
book is Jolly West who describes the
UCLA violence project. In the book
edited by Neil West, Jolly West
interviews Jack Ruby. Jack Ruby shoots
Lee Harvey Oswald.
Okay, well that's interesting. That's
the end of the story.
Except let's run back around this way.
Robert Heath publishes with Francisco
Silva, who's still alive, who I'm going
to try and interview in uh Baton Rouge.
Francisco Silva is a Cuban psychiatrist
who left in the random year of 1959
which is when Castro took over
to uh take up residence in Louisiana and
work and publish with Robert Heath who
told my secretary that Francisco Silva
is a very wonderful person. In the
Warren Commission documents, there's
uncorroborated testimony by Lee Harvey
Oswald that in 1963, prior to the
assassination, he lived with Francisco
Silva and was uh temporarily employed at
the hospital where Francisco Silva
worked.
Some I'm just sort of playing mind games
with you. This is all just meaningless
coincidence.
Okay. Project Paperclip and mind control
research.
Okay. CIA. We heard about Alan Dulles
already. He is the director of the
Central Intelligence Agency before
George Bush was the director of the
Central Intelligence Agency
uh which in turn was before George Bush
was the president. Alan Dulles is uh
head of the CIA during the MK Ultra
program and obviously was aware of it
and oversaw it. The CIA uh
goes to Alan Dulles, which goes back to
this Reinhardt Galen guy who is the
German spy master that was recruited by
Dulles to become our boy spying against
the Russians, our enemies who were
previously were our friends. Reinhardt
Galen is a in effect a Nazi war
criminal. Comes down to here. Project
Paperclip is a fully documented project
that's one of a group of projects
including uh project
na I think national interest project 63.
There's a uh something with the word
blood in it. Bloodstone. There's a bunch
of other projects but paperclipip is the
best known one. There's several books
about it. Project Paperclip is a program
set up by the CIA and military
intelligence uh to bring Nazi war
criminals into the United States through
a mechanism that rooted them around the
State Department. State Department rules
were that if you're a Nazi war criminal,
you couldn't immigrate to the United
States. But there was a mad scramble
at the uh end of the Second World War
involving the um US, Canada, British,
French, German uh and Russian
governments who are all scrambling to
get their hands on German scientists and
there was all kinds of like recruiting
drives and etc etc. and American teams
would actually go into like the Russian
sector and go into a place where German
scientists were being held and sneak
those guys out of there. So it was quite
uh quite an intense little party that
was going on
in Project Paperclip. All this is
totally documented. All types of
scientists were brought over to the
United States. film experts, ball
bearing experts, lubricants, rockets,
every aspect of science and technology
of interest to the military
included some somewhat obscure people
like Warner von Brown.
Warner von Brown was head of the rocket
program.
He uh was the guy who was in charge of
the V2 rockets that were used to bomb
Britain which were created the
middlever. The labor for the middle was
supplied from Camp Dora. When the
American troops liberated Camp Dora,
they found 6,000 corpses on the ground.
It's estimated that about 20,000 people
were worked to death out of Camp Dora
building the V2 rockets.
Uh, Warner von Brown is documented as
being on site at the middlevert at least
20 times and being at meetings of uh, V2
oversight personnel where the use of uh,
prisoners being worked to death was
discussed and condoned and the uh,
workers would sometimes attempt to
sabotage the rockets by urinating on the
parts or tampering with the rockets. The
typical response to that was that the
entire work crew would be instantly hung
in their work tunnel.
He was also a member of the SS and
there's a correspondence on uh US space
program stationary to a journalist in
which Warner von Brown admits that he
was SS officer.
So he was a Nazi war criminal who
couldn't be brought in through a normal
kind of visa process. Another person who
was brought in through paperclip or
another related project was Alberta
Strug. Alberta Struold is regarded as
the father of aviation medicine. There's
a library named after him at Lackland
Air Force Base in San Antonio. Uh he was
honored by the daughters of the American
Revolution for his contribution to
aviation medicine and the Texas state
legislature declared uh a one-time state
memorial day named after him in I
believe it was the 1960s. Alberta
Struggold was not a nice person.
people on his own administrative level,
people who reported to him and people
that he reported to were all uh tried
and found guilty at Nuremberg of war
crimes. He was not even interviewed by
the US lawyers responsible for that
sector of Nuremberg.
The types of experiments that these
people did included things like uh
putting people in a pressure chamber and
dropping the pressure instantly to about
60,000 ft to simulate somebody being
blown out of a cockpit if they were a US
pilot. What would happen then is they
would claw at their faces, experience
excruciating pain, and die, either
actually die or almost die. The ones who
died uh would be taken out of the
chamber. Their heads would be cut open.
Then their heads would be submerged
under water. Their brains would then be
sliced open to determine whether there
was air emblei in their cerebral
arteries.
Another type of experiment done by these
people was to attempt to find an
antidote to seawater so that down German
pilots in the North Sea could drink sea
water. So these people were given uh
forced feedings of seawater for days on
end which then would be doctorred with
various different substances to see
whether any of the substances would
prevent the subjects from dying. This is
major full tilt Nazi doctor war crime
stuff and
probably over a thousand of these uh
kind of scientists were brought in over
under project paperclip.
The uh Nazi war criminals were examined
by a team of psychiatrists including you
and Cameron who did LSD and masculine
research who was an MK Ultra contractor.
LSD and masculine research was also
funded by uh MK Ultra and masculine
research was done by the Nazi war
criminals in the U prisoner war camps.
So you and Cameron probably got the
bright idea of LSD and masculine
research from the Nazi war criminals.
And according to this book, which is not
real rock solid in its documentation, he
was still in network up in the early
1960s when uh the U2 pilot went down. So
the only people who are missing from
this fully completely documented history
are the psychological warfare experts.
It is not possible that the only kind of
scientists out of the full range of
military expertise that were not brought
over was the psychological warfare
experts. And uh
um a guy who was um uh Deop's character
in Vietnam described being out in the
field and coming across uh US and VC
personnel who are all totally wasted on
some sort of hallucinagen trip. and
their job would simply be to extract
these guys and leave the VC who are just
completely out of it on the ground. Uh
he he told me which uh which specific uh
location in the United States would be
the most likely place to find some of
these uh paperclip psychological warfare
experts. So I'm going to pursue that.
Let's just take a look at the brain
electrode implant research. Now, let's
say it's just not believable that the
CIA and the military have been creating
mentoring candidates. It's too much.
It's science fiction.
Well, what do we know for a fact that
they've been doing? We know that they've
been giving kids
uh if you do milligrams per kilogram or
micrograms per kilogram, big time street
doses of LSD days, weeks, and months,
and a year up to years in a row.
We know that they've been implanting
non- therapeutic brain electrodes in
children as young as 11 years old on
experimental basis. And we know that
they've been wiping out people's entire
personal histories with 102 ect
treatments and massive sleep induction
through drugs for no therapeutic reason
whatsoever. But we don't think they
would go as far as creating a maturing
candidate. So it doesn't add up. What we
know for an absolute documented fact is
that they've gone way beyond monkeying
around with some amnesia barriers and
new identities. So what's the story on
brain electrode implant research? Here's
a name you might recognize.
Well, brain electrode implant research
was funded by the CIA and MK Ultra
in conjunction with the office of naval
research. There's a lot of joint funding
of various projects by office of naval
research and the CIA. The office of
naval re research funded both Neil Burch
and the CIA and Neil Burch published
that thing by Jolly West. Jolly West
started the UCLA violence project which
was going to be at Vakavville which is
where Donald Dreeze was.
He recruited a brain electrode implant
psychiatrist who was part of a brain
electrode implant team at Harvard, Frank
Irvin to be part of the UCLA violence
project. He denies in his chapter in the
book by Neil Burch that there was any
intention to do brain electrode
implants. But the available evidence
suggests that actually in fact the plan
was to stick brain electrodes in some of
these prisoners at Vakavville. And the
concept was that you would use this for
tracking their whereabouts and if they
were uh off restricted locations or
there was certain kind of discharge from
their brain, you could then transmit a
signal to them to arrest their behavior
so that they could be picked up by the
police.
Uh he's also funded by Army
Intelligence. Army Intelligence funded
Neil Burch. Army Intelligence funded
Robert Heath at Toulain who did brain
electrode implant research. We saw him
on the previous page. The Office of
Naval Research funded Jose Delgato at
Yale who did brain electrode implant
research. This is the guy that Harold
Leaf sent a patient into. His
experiments include sticking electrodes
in brains as I mentioned and then
pouring in various types of
hallucinogens to see what would be the
effect on their perception, their
behavior and electrical activity in the
brain. This guy Jose Delgado who's
tightly in network he's famous for a
videotape of a bull charging at him.
Then he pushes the transmitter box which
sends a signal to the electrode
implanted in the bull's brain and the
brain the bull turns away. He also has a
series of papers which are in my Jose
Delgato file where he does this kind of
research on cats and he refers to the
cats that he's got brain electrodes in
that he's controlling by a transmitter
as mechanical toys
which by loose association rem reminds
me of a book called man a mechanical
misfit written by ghtors.
He also describes
a technical innovation in an 11-year-old
boy who had brain electrodes implanted
for non- therapeutic reasons.
Previously, you had to have wires
connecting the transmitter box directly
to the electrode terminals that were
sticking through the skull. In this
11-year-old boy, however, Jose Delgato
had figured out how to have a remote
transmitter without a direct wire
connection. He describes pushing a
button in this otherwise normal
11-year-old boy's brain transmitter box.
And the boy starts uh being confused
about his identity, wondering whether
he's a girl, and talking about wanting
to marry Jose Dgado. He pushes another
button, and this behavior stops. Another
experiment with a 16-year-old girl who
looks like maybe a mild borderline
preorbidly
involves sticking these brain electrodes
in. And there's actually pictures in the
paper that you photocopy when you go to
the medical school library that's in a
journal on the shelf where in one
picture she's got this vacant stupid
grin on her face. Push another button on
the panel box and she's pounding the
wall. So they are showing actual
photographs of marketkedly different
behavioral states totally controlled by
remote transmitters and brain electrode
implants.
But you know the these guys wouldn't be
using hypnosis to create menntarian
candidates.
Let's look at the temporal lobe epilepsy
military mind control research story
just for a minute. Let's try and think
about the history of multiple
personality disorder. What are some of
the bogus reasons why MPD is not real?
Well, one of the big arguments is it's
really temporal lobe epilepsy.
So we know that temporal lobe epilepsy
has been used as one of the arms of
manurian candidate denial.
Okay. Well, here we have how that little
network works. We got Robert Hath who's
doing non- therapeutic brain electrode
implants plus brain electrode implants
on temporal lobe epilepsy subjects.
That's all funded by military
intelligence and the CIA.
We've got temporal lobe epilepsy as a
phenomena. Mark Frank Irvin who's
recruited by Jolly West to the UCLA
Violence Project and Mark Swuite write a
book called Violence in the Brain where
they're describing doing brain electrode
implants experiments on people with
temporal lobe epilepsy. One of their
subjects had a very unusual form of
temporal lobe epilepsy. He was driving a
truck in Los Angeles and blanked out and
came to in Phoenix.
So actually these people were doing
brain electrode implants on multiples.
Uh Jolly West said, "Uh, well the it
could be alcoholics, but the the
description, remember this guy drove a
truck from UCLA to Phoenix. That's a
little bit much for alcohol blackout,
but some of the other case histories
clearly sound dissociative in nature,
but they're calling them temporal lobe
epilepsy just like Jolly West said, Jock
Ruby had temporal lobe epilepsy."
There's this u misinformation in the
literature that did is actually due to
temporal lobe epilepsy. And there's nine
authors of a series of papers in the
early to mid 1980s pumping this the idea
is really temporal epilepsy line. So
this shows you how this research works
cuz I haven't done this but the
hypothesis is now these nine authors are
somehow going to be in network.
So the odds are the nine authors of the
papers published in the 80s saying that
did is really just temporal lobe
epilepsy. They are going to be in
network in this mind control old boy
network somehow. I just haven't
researched that up.
Okay, borderline personality disorder
when multiples are really just border
lines is another backup strategy. How
does borderline personality disorder tie
up with military mind control research?
Well, did theatrogenic they're really
just border lines that Martin Norton
says that Richard off says that Martin
Norn worked for MK Ultra. MK Ultra is
connected to MK Naomi. MK Naomi was also
conducted at Edgeware Arsenal. Edgeware
Arsenal is a place where Amado Morazzi
worked. Amado Morazzi did LSD research
for uh the Air Force in Minnesota
and it was funded by Air Force
intelligence. Robert Heath also did LSD
research. LSD research was done by Nazi
scientists and war criminals. Nazi
scientists and war criminals were
imported into Edgeware arsenal
frequently and one of the people that I
researched was u uh I forget his first
name now Wagner Jorg.
>> Good morning and welcome to another
international connection and happy
Easter to everybody out there. We are in
part three of a lecture by Dr. Colin
Ross. This uh lecture was called the CIA
and military mind control research
building the manurion candidate and this
is the first segment in um an extended
series on mind control in Canada. Uh
next week we'll be featuring an
interview with Dr. Colin Ross. Um if uh
people are interested in where to get
hold of audio tapes of this uh program
or transcripts, you can give me a call
at uh 5951655
during the show or shortly after. This
lecture was given at the 9th annual
Western clinic conference on trauma and
dissociation in Orange County,
California on April 18th, 1996.
And it's very uh suspicious uh I would
say that uh we have uh in the news uh
the uh cult group that has just
so-called uh supposedly committed mass
suicide in San Diego and uh immediate
comparisons to Jonestown. And as we're
going to hear today and as we heard last
week of Jonestown's connections to the
CIA mind control programs
and um also the uh the Solar Temple uh
suicides as well in Quebec and um if you
remember the there was uh news coverage
for example Radio Canada announced that
the Solar Temple had financed itself
through arm smuggling laundering its
money through BCCI which is well known
for its CIA connections as well. So it I
think people have to ask themselves uh
what's behind these uh these events and
uh not to take uh it at media's face
value.
Now we're going to play Dr. Colin Ross.
Other person who was brought in through
paperclip or another related project was
Alberta Strug. Alberta Struold is
regarded as the father of aviation
medicine. There's a library named after
him at Lackland Air Force Base in San
Antonio. Uh he was honored by the
Daughters of the American Revolution for
his contribution to aviation medicine
and the Texas State Legislature declared
uh a one-time state Memorial Day named
after him in I believe it was the 1960s.
Alberta Struggold was not a nice person.
the people on his own administrative
level, people who reported to him and
people that he reported to were all uh
tried and found guilty at Nuremberg of
war crimes. He was not even interviewed
by the US lawyers responsible for that
sector of Nuremberg.
The types of experiments that these
people did included things like uh
putting people in a pressure chamber and
dropping the pressure instantly to about
60,000 ft to simulate somebody being
blown out of a cockpit if they were a US
pilot. What would happen then is they
would claw at their faces, experience
excruciating pain, uh and die, either
actually die or almost die. The ones who
died uh would be taken out of the
chamber. Their heads would be cut open.
Then their heads would be submerged
underwater. Their brains would then be
sliced open to determine whether there
was air emblei in their cerebral
arteries. Another type of experiment
done by these people was to attempt to
find an antidote to seawater so that
down German pilots in the North Sea
could drink sea water. So these people
were given uh forced feedings of
seawater for days on end which then
would be doctorred with various
different substances to see whether any
of the substances would prevent these
subjects from dying. This is major full
tilt Nazi doctor war crime stuff and
probably over a thousand of these uh
kind of scientists were brought in over
under project paperclip.
The uh Nazi war criminals were examined
by a team of psychiatrists including
Euan Cameron who did LSD and masculine
research who was an MK Ultra contractor.
LSD and masculine research was also
funded by uh MK Ultra and masculine
research was done by the Nazi war
criminals in the U prisoner of war
camps.
So you and Cameron probably got the
bright idea of LSD and musculine
research from the Nazi war criminals.
And according to this book, which is not
real rock solid in his documentation, he
was still in network up in the early
1960s when uh the U2 pilot went down. So
the only people who are missing from
this fully completely documented history
are the psychological warfare experts.
It is not plausible that the only kind
of scientists out of the full range of
military expertise that were not brought
over was the psychological warfare
experts. And uh
um a guy who was um uh DeepOpops
character in Vietnam described being out
in the field and coming across uh US and
VC personnel who are all totally wasted
on some sort of hallucinagen trip and
their job would simply be to extract
these guys and leave the VC who are just
completely out of it on the ground.
and he he told me which uh which
specific uh location in the United
States would be the most likely place to
find some of these uh paperclip
psychological warfare experts. So, I'm
going to pursue that.
Let's just take a look at the brain
electrode implant research. Now, let's
say it's just not believable that the CI
and the military have been creating
menuring candidates. It's too much. It's
science fiction.
Well, what do we know for a fact that
they've been doing? We know that they've
been giving kids
uh if you do milligrams per kilogram or
micrograms per kilogram big time street
doses of LSD days, weeks, and months,
and a year up to years in a row.
We know that they've been implanting
non- therapeutic brain electrodes in
children as young as 11 years old on
experimental basis. And we know that
they've been wiping out people's entire
personal histories with 102 ECT
treatments and massive sleep induction
through drugs for no therapeutic reason
whatsoever. But we don't think they
would go as far as creating a maturing
candidate. So it doesn't add up. What we
know for an absolute documented fact is
that they've gone way beyond monkeying
around with some amnesia barriers and
new identities. So what's the story on
brain electrode implant research? Now
here's a name you might recognize.
Well, brain electrode implant research
was funded by the CIA and MK Ultra
in conjunction with the office of naval
research. There's a lot of joint funding
of various projects by office of naval
research and the CIA. The office of
naval research funded both Neil Burch
and the CIA and Neil Burch published
that thing by Jolly West. Jolly West
started the UCLA violence project which
was going to be at Vakavville which is
where Donald was.
He recruited a brain electrode implant
psychiatrist who's part of a brain
electrode implant team at Harvard Frank
Irvin to be part of the UCLA violence
project. He denies in his chapter in the
book by Neil Burch that there was any
intention to do brain electrode
implants. But the available evidence
suggests that actually in fact the plan
was to stick brain electrodes in some of
these prisoners at Vakavville. And the
concept was that you would use this for
tracking their whereabouts and if they
were uh off restricted locations or
there was certain kind of discharge from
their brain, you could then transmit a
signal to them to arrest their behavior
so that they could be picked up by the
police.
Uh he's also funded by Army
Intelligence. Army Intelligence funded
Neil Burch. Army Intelligence funded
Robert Heath at Toulain who did brain
electrode implant research. We saw him
on the previous page. The Office of
Naval Research funded Jose Delgato at
Yale who did brain electrode implant
research. This is the guy that Harold
Leaf sent a patient into. His
experiments include sticking electrodes
in brains as I mentioned and then
pouring in various types of
hallucinogens to see what would be the
effect on their perception, their
behavior and electrical activity in the
brain. This guy Jose Delgado who's
tightly in network he's famous for a
videotape of a bull charging at him.
Then he pushes the transmitter box which
sends a signal to the electrode
implanted in the bull's brain and the
brain the bull turns away.
He also has a series of papers which are
in my Jose Delgato file where he does
this kind of research on cats and he
refers to the cats that he's got brain
electrodes in that he's controlling by a
transmitter as mechanical toys
which by loose association rem reminds
me of a book called man a mechanical
misfit written by ghtors.
He also describes
a technical innovation in an 11-year-old
boy who had brain electrodes implanted
for non- therapeutic reasons.
Previously, you had to have wires
connecting the transmitter box directly
to the electrode terminals that were
sticking through the skull. In this
11-year-old boy, however, Jose Delgado
had figured out how to have a remote
transmitter without a direct wire
connection. He describes pushing a
button in this otherwise normal
11-year-old boy's brain transmitter box.
And the boy starts uh being confused
about his identity, wondering whether
he's a girl, and talking about wanting
to marry Jose Delgado. He pushes
another button, and this behavior stops.
Another experiment with a 16-year-old
girl who looks like maybe a mild
borderline preorbidly
involves sticking these brain electrodes
in. And there's actually pictures in the
paper that you photocopy when you go to
the medical school library that's in a
journal on the shelf where in one
picture she's got this vacant stupid
grin on her face. Push another button on
the panel box and she's pounding the
wall. So they are showing actual
photographs of marketkedly different
behavioral states totally controlled by
remote transmitters and brain electrode
impacts.
But you know the these guys wouldn't be
using hypnosis to create mentoring
candidates.
Let's look at the temporal lobe epilepsy
military mind control research story
just for a minute. Let's try and think
about the history of multiple
personality disorder. What are some of
the bogus reasons why MPD is not real?
Well, one of the big arguments is it's
really temporal lobe epilepsy.
So we know that temporal lobe epilepsy
has been used as one of the arms of
manurian candidate denial.
[Music]
Okay. Well, here we have how that little
network works. We got Robert Hath who's
doing non- therapeutic brain electrode
implants plus brain electrode implants
on temporal lobe epilepsy subjects.
That's all funded by military
intelligence and the CIA.
We've got temporal lobe epilepsy as a
phenomena. Mark Frank Irvin who's
recruited by Jolly West to the UCLA
Violence Project and Mark Sweet write a
book called Violence in the Brain where
they're describing doing brain electrode
implant experiments on people with
temporal lobe epilepsy. One of their
subjects had a very unusual form of
temporal lobe epilepsy. He was driving a
truck in Los Angeles and blanked out and
came to in Phoenix.
So actually these people were doing
brain electrode implants on multiples.
Uh Jolly West said, "Uh, well the it
could be alcoholics, but the the
description, remember this guy drove a
truck from UCLA to Phoenix. That's a
little bit much for alcohol blackout,
but some of the other case histories
clearly sound dissociative in nature,
but they're calling them temporal lobe
epilepsy just like Jolly West said, Jock
Ruby had temporal lobe epilepsy."
There's this u misinformation in the
literature that did is actually due to
temporal lobe epilepsy. And there's nine
authors of a series of papers in the
early to mid 1980s pumping this idea is
really temporal epilepsy line. So this
shows you how this research works cuz I
haven't done this but the hypothesis is
now these nine authors are somehow going
to be in network.
So the odds are the nine authors of the
papers published in the 80s saying that
did is really just temporal lobe
epilepsy. They are going to be in
network in this mind control old boy
network somehow. I just haven't
researched that up.
Okay. Borderline personality disorder
when multiples are really just border
lines. There's another backup strategy.
How does borderline personality disorder
tie up with military mind control
research?
Well, did theatrogenic. They're really
just border lines. That Martin Horn says
that. Uh Richard Oshi says that Martin
Norn worked for MK Ultra. MK Ultra is
connected to MK Naomi. MK Naomi was also
conducted at Edgewear Arsenal. Edgeware
Arsenal is a place where Amado Morazzi
worked. Amado Morazzi did LSD research
for uh the air force in Minnesota
and it was funded by Air Force
Intelligence. Robert Heath also did LSD
research. LSD research was done by Nazi
scientists and war criminals. Nazi
scientists and war criminals were
imported into Edgeware arsenal
frequently. And one of the people that I
researched was u uh I forget his first
name now, Wagner Jorg, who apparently is
the son of the Wagner Jorg who won a
Nobel Prize for treating stifilis with
malaria. I haven't researched that up
fully, but he came over to Edgeware
Arsenal and uh I have him publishing
research. I have him documented as being
a German university professor in the
1930s and4s showing up at Edgeware
Arsenal and publishing research on
antidotes to chemical warfare weapons
and saying that he regrets the extremely
long period of time during which it was
impossible to publish this research
data.
And so he did that research at Edgeware
Arsenal which overlaps with the time
that Ammo Amodo Morazzi was there who
did LSD research u at the University of
Minnesota. Another person who did LSD
research is Paul Hawk. Paul Hawk worked
for the CIA and is one of the inventors
of the term borderline personality
disorder. So, this is a little bit
hokey, this one, but it just shows you
the theme here is not that there's a
military intelligence conspiracy to
cover up Manurion candidate creation
with a myth of borderline personality
disorder. The point now is sort of a a
more global general meta point which is
this whole network of old boys in
psychiatry and psychology who are
covertly funded who are part of the
military CI intelligence mind control
network are very influential in the
history of psychiatry in a kind of
nebulous fashion that just permeates the
whole field that isn't part of the sort
of onetoone correspondences like I've
been showing before. So it's a matter of
the whole mindset of psychiatry, how we
think about borderline, how we think
about temp temporal load epilepsy, what
are we going to react to MPD like? Well,
we're going to react to MPD because so
it's more a little bit more vague. It's
a little bit more global. It's a little
more general. But the point is that the
history of psychiatry in the second half
of the 20th century has undoubtedly been
strongly skewed not by an agenda that
has to do with academic research, not by
the best interest of clients, not by
ethical psychiatry, but by an
intelligence agenda. My beef is not with
the intelligence committee or the CIA.
It's with the psychiatrists and the
psychologists who've created a little
loophole where they can step out of
normal ethical oversight, violate the
hypocratic oath, get away with it, not
talk about it. And just like the
conspiracy to keep incest under the
carpet, this is all conspired and kept
under the carpet, not by 12 guys in a
room at Langley who are doing the
planning, but just by this pervasive old
boy network that's keeping the mind
control secret down, just like it kept
the incest secret down. So, that's
another reason this is important and
needs to be uncovered.
Uh, that's the end of the slides. Now,
I'm going to come back to Jonestown a
little bit and fill you in on Jonestown.
And then I see that I'm way ahead of
schedule, which is fine cuz I've got a
lot more to tell you. Plus, you can ask
a whole bunch of questions and we can
have a discussion.
According to this Jonestown book, oh um
you remember that um there's a
connection between um Patty Hurst is
being kidnapped by Donald Dreeze who's
mind controlled by Coulson Westbrook
who's a CIA cyar expert and then there's
the food relief program for uh the
ransom by Jim Jones who's being hassled
by William Hand Randph Hurst newspaper
that ties into Russell Means being on
the board.
Well, according to a person who survived
the white knight at Jonestown, Patty
Hurst's boyfriend, Steven Weed, was on
site at the People's Temple in Ukaya and
observed talking to Jim Jones 3 months
before the kidnapping.
If that is true,
I mean, that just blows the coincidence
conspiracy theory out of the water. It's
too much not to be all connected up.
According to the book, there's pretty
solid documentation that Jim Jones was
uh recruited by the CIA way back in the
50s and he was a course of persuasion
brainwashing expert who uh had some
churches in Cincinnati and then moved
out to California. He specialized in
course of persuasion on blacks and
Native Americans. Almost all of the
people at Jonestown were not white
except the elite who survived. and he
was on site in two European uh South
American countries, I think Brazil and
British Guyana, as a CIA undercover
operative doing typical CIA operations
as part of government overthrow by
stirring up left-wing factions, stirring
up labor, uh distributing leaflets and
so on. So, he was actually part of
standard CIA operations going way back
into the 50s. Um, the evidence in favor
of it actually being a drug experiment
is pretty weak. He says there was drug
A, drug B, and placebo. And the point of
the experiment was, do either of the
active drugs enhance the voluntary
completed suicide rate of the
brainwashed subjects,
but he doesn't really provide any
documentation to support that. He just
sort of pulls that out of nowhere. So
that's not very plausible. Also, he
talks about MK Ultra in a non-scolarly
way because MK Ultra had already
stopped. So it wasn't technically an MK
Ultra operation.
Um there's a lot of I can't remember all
the detail in the book, but there's a
lot of elaborate detail about uh for
instance, Jim Jones uh visited Castro.
Um there's a lot of connections between
the CIA being the site for Jonestown in
British Ghana before they went there and
all kinds of visiting back and forth
from CIA station in the capital of Ghana
to the people's temple. Like I said, one
of those daughters in the Leighton
family was escorted out of Jonestown
just before White Knight by the CIA
station chief.
And um it it just builds up like that.
There's dozens and dozens and dozens of
these kind of documented pieces of
information. Uh there's a whole bunch of
stuff about pe particular people who
were assassinated by the people's temple
and a a bunch of u numerological type
code and letter type code for how these
people were selected and how their last
names uh mirrored the method by which
they were killed. So there's a whole
just vast ton of detail that leaves me
with a net conclusion that it's beyond
coincidence. Whether it actually was a
medical experiment uh is not really
clearly established except the most
compelling fact is the method of
delivery of the drugs. Every night every
member of the Jonestown commune had to
go to the kitchen and eat one cookie in
front of personnel.
And he says the cookie is where the
drugs were delivered.
So
I I would say the net conclusion is that
it's probably more than 50/50% likely
that there was some sort of heavy CIA
involvement in Jonestown, whether or not
there was a drug experiment. In terms of
how many people actually committed
suicide, according to this book,
actually only a minority of people
committed suicide. Many were shot or
injected uh with a sinide. Only a
minority actually drank it voluntarily.
And when you look at the configuration
of bodies on the ground, these are
people who just drank, died, and fell on
the ground. They're all lined up in
orderly rows.
Uh there's a whole deal about how uh one
of the Leighton family members was her
identity was switched with somebody else
who had lung cancer and she was actually
escorted off the grounds on the grounds
of having lung cancer, but it was
somebody else who had the lung cancer.
And there's substitution of bodies.
There's a claim that the guy who was
identified as being Jim Jones was not
actually Jim Jones.
So you have you have to read the book to
get the whole wealth of detail, but I'd
say it's fairly compelling and
persuasive.
Which takes us back into how come all
these guys who are connected into
network tend to be experts in mind
control, brainwashing, course of
persuasion, destructive cults,
and why is it that destructive cults
appear to specialize in creating
mentoring candidates? So it just you
just keep going round and round this
network and the more you research into
it, this is only like partway along the
journey. If you actually had a team of
like 10 researchers, you would end up
with like 50 of these slides with every
some of it speculative, but every
connection fully documented on 50
slides.
So,
another another curious twist on this
story is the history of LSD.
One of the things that goes on is
there's always information and
disinformation. One of the strategies
for disinformation is what's called a
limited hangout. A limited hangout is
when you let out a little bit of the
truth and then you go, well, see, we
fessed up. But actually, you only let
out 3%. And the purpose of the limited
hangout is to cover up the rest.
So there's always a limited hangout
going on. Every time a bunch of stuff is
declassified, that's only the tip of the
iceberg. If we take a look at the
history of LSD, something that's was not
taught to me when I was a psychiatry
resident is who were the original acid
heads
could have been like maybe beatnix or
maybe Alan Ginsburg or could have been
Ken Keezy maybe. No, the original acid
heads in North America were the leading
figures in psychiatry.
The people who imported LSD into North
America were the CIA and the military.
They didn't get here through street or
drug dealer routes. They got here
through official military CIA mind
control research mechanisms. And the CIA
at one time actually considered buying
up the world supply of LSD from Sandos.
But like I said, their alternative
backup was to contract with Eli Liy to
provide a secure supply of LSD. So these
guys were on acid trips in the first
half of the 1950s.
Uh people who first got turned on to LSD
as subjects in military experiments
included uh Gregory Bateson,
uh Alan Ginsburg,
Ken Keezy,
um probably Timothy Larry.
Gregory Bateson uh was married to
Margaret me who was funded in her
anthropological work by the CIA. There's
a whole another dimension of this which
is funding. This is a fact in another
story about anthropology. A little
glimpse of which we capture from uh
Raymond Prince being funded on our MK
Ultra to go study the Yoruba. This is
called study of mind control techniques
by witch doctors around the world. Now
Raymond Prince's hypothesis is that
actually it's just a way to go
undercover into a foreign country and
gather information about the culture and
establish contact with possible agents
and recruits. But the CIA's as part of
its proper operations in the cold war
has had to gather tremendous amount of
data on the stability of different
societies and countries that are likely
to tip over to communism which involves
sociology, economics, military analysis
and anthropology. Anthropologies and
languages and linguistics are all part
of the operation.
So all of these people who were the
original acid heads are the
psychiatrists
and the psychiatrist when you read the
LSD sponsored symposia
um the guy who's the archavist currently
for the American College of Psychiatrist
whose name is Sydney Mallet who I plan
to contact the American Psych College of
Psychiatrist is this old boy's power
club in American psychiatry that I got
into because I got a fellowship from
them as a resident.
Is he?
>> No, I don't think it was CIA funded
unless me Johnson was functioning as a
cutout. The money supposedly came from
me Johnson.
Um, but that's the way the network
works. I mean, that's a joke, but it
could be. You never know. Um, so this
guy who's the archavist historian in one
of these CI symposia in the early 1960s
talks about how he was turned on to LSD
by Paul Hawk, who's the guy who is
responsible for the term borderline
personality disorder who killed the
tennis pro with measculine.
Well,
all these guys are writing and talking
about LSD as the hot thing in
psychotherapy. They are totally on board
with it. And usually they're talking
about sub hallucinogenic doses like 50
milligrams, 75 milligs as loosening up
the ego and causing these amazing
treatment responses like curing
long-term alcoholism in a single LSD
psychotherapy session. They're all
getting funded by it. They're getting
perked by it. They're going to trips.
They're meeting their buddies. They're
going to conferences. They're getting
published. They're getting books edited.
It's all just part of the whole program.
Nobody in psychiatry is saying bad
stuff, dangerous stuff, street drug,
protect the youth of America. They're
not talking like that. All of a sudden,
boom,
it's an it's a narcotic and it's outlied
by the FDA. What is the initial response
of all of these gay-haired fathers of
psychiatry to making LSD an illegal
substance? Protest. It's bad thing. It's
robbing us of a powerful
psychotherrapeutic agent. It's crippling
our research efforts.
These guys were hung out to dry.
They were used by the intelligence
agencies to gather uh therapeutic use of
LSD, interrogation use of LSD,
sacimemetic use of LSD. And then when
they had done their job,
LSD was just canceled from academia. It
was made illegal.
And then a whole disinformation campaign
went along with that whereby LSD was
transformed from this wonderful
therapeutic agent whose use was
advocated by the majing leading major
leading figures in psychiatry into this
horrible thing that made our children
jump out of windows and busted up their
chromosomes. That's called a
disinformation campaign and it caught
the leaders of psychiatry totally by
surprise which is hard to believe since
psychiatrists are such clever political
strategists in general.
Okay. What about this whole creating
Manurion candidate stuff which we see
now for a fact has been going on since n
the second world war and according to
Estherbrooks even back to the first
world war. So we now have established
for a proven fact that that was going on
in the second world war and the CIA was
working on it in artichoke and bluebird
51 to 53. Well the Korean war only
started in 1950. The disinformation is
that our boys went over there
they got shot down. they got captured.
The communist Chinese worked on him with
these strange techniques we don't
understand.
The person who coined the term
brainwashing in a book was named uh
Edwin, I think was his first name,
Hunter. He's a career CIA case officer.
This was a term that was coined by the
CIA to explain what was happening to our
boys in North Korea who are making bogus
statements about germ warfare activities
they've been involved in.
Now, it could be that part of the
communist brainwashing
strategy was to talk to these guys about
the ethical impropriety of biological
warfare bombing they actually had been
doing on North Viet North Korea. At any
rate, they come home as Manurion
candidates. We're all bent out of shape
because our boys are talking communism.
And so, we say that we have got to start
studying this stuff reactively and
defensively because of what the commies
are doing. That is the disinformation
myth that's been adhered to by the
military intelligence community
steadfastly from the Korean War up till
the present. It's totally bogus. It's
disinformation. It's not a fact. It's a
madeup story to cover up the fact that
actually we had operational offensive
use of this psychological warfare
technology already in place in the
Second World War. got a major
disinformation campaign which has
basically fooled mental health
professions and the general public
concerning brainwashing concerning LSD.
Fortunately, those are the only two
examples in human history. This analysis
does not apply to the false memory
movement.
There's no way that it could conceivably
be possible, you'll all agree, that
there could be any nervousness in the
intelligence community about Manurion
candidates spilling out into civilian
psychotherapies and that a
disinformation program based on false
memories would be required. That's
obviously absurd. Nobody but a CI
conspiracy nut would ever suggest that.
So I can guarantee you that that thought
has never even crossed my mind until it
just spontaneously appeared at this
moment.
So you see the actually in fact the idea
that there could be a deliberate
disinformation campaign element to the
false memory movement is perfectly
plausible consistent with history and to
be expected. There is bound to be some
sort of disinformation strategy if in
fact menuring candidates have been
leaking out into civilian
psychotherapies.
So here we have with all of this
documentation, all of this proof, we
know that it is perfectly possible that
people we are seeing in therapy who are
claiming to be victims of systematic
military mind control experimentation
are telling us about what actually
happened to them. However, I'm not a
single step further ahead than I was
four years ago on actually documenting
that any single individual patient in
treatment actually in fact was involved
in these mind control experiments. There
is no linkage at all from the current
patients in treatment to this
documentation.
So whether we're ever going to get that
or not, I don't know.
Um, America Online has on on site and
there are a number of men that are
writing in about mind control and the
military.
>> Okay. So, America Online has a site
called on Psych Psych online. Yeah. And
>> if you're getting some of the um forums
or groups,
>> right?
>> Um, there is a group called mind control
and military.
>> Okay.
So mind control in the military is a
chat group on the
>> on
[Music]
like a bulletin board more
>> those of us who are not internet wizards
are having trouble with this vocabulary
but anyway there's you're able to access
through America online onto the internet
or it's on America online
>> online on psych
>> on psych
websites on the internet as well
>> and there's a bunch of websites
apparently there's a lot of info about
this on in the web and internet and
America online and elsewhere but the
problem is like I've only gone I don't
go to chat rooms that much but the
little bit I've gone is it's mostly just
totally balance silly and boring and a
waste of time so when you go into the
stuff on mind control how much just
garbage you're going to get and how much
solid stuff that you can pursue and
document are going to get is my question
I have no idea what the answer is
But as we all know, the truth is out
there.
>> I'm curious, you said you haven't had an
opportunity or you haven't had a case
where you've been able to document.
>> I'm curious, how would you go about
doing that?
>> How would I go about documenting
uh that's a patient that I currently
have in treatment or somebody else
currently has in treatment in fact was
involved in that kind of
experimentation? Well, um,
here's how the, uh, the documentation
has gone so far. The person has, u, By
the way, I've done Freedom of
Information Act requests on Monarch at
all intelligence agencies, and they've
all denied it exists.
Um, the patient has apparently no source
of contamination for specific Monarch
memories, but has the word Monarch in
her mind and has very detailed Monarch
mind control type scenario memories. Um
her father u basically uh abused her uh
domestically and ritualistically and
then u took her over to the mind control
people. How she got there, what the
transport mechanism was, plane and car,
the location's all vague because of she
appears to have been drugged out during
transport.
Uh is it possible that her father could
have been this kind of person? Well, I
have his um military service record
which I got through the Freedom of
Information Act. I have a letter from
him in prison where he's imprisoned for
uh mob crime connections.
U I've got um a mother and a sister
corroborating the domestic incest, a
sister with some patchy corroboration of
ritual abuse and military mind control
memories. I've got the uh father
personally connected to Jack Ruby.
That's as far as it goes. It's sort of
circumstantial, intriguing. So, the way
that I would attempt to document it
would be if the person tells me, most
people can't tell you the specific name
of a doctor.
But if somebody gives you the specific
name of a doctor and gives you a
specific location and then you can
establish that this doctor actually
existed, then you can establish that in
fact the doctor was a CIA employee
and you can establish that this person's
father was uh uh imprisoned by the FBI
as part of a mafia raid by looking at
the journal articles that the patient
has. Then you're starting to get closer
and closer. So, it's your basic
investigative reporting type stuff. Name
a specific base. Okay, what do you know
about the base? How did you get there?
Tell me about some buildings. Tell me
about personnel. Describe the uniforms.
What was used? And then if you can get
another subject, who is at the same
time? That's just the way it is. It's
your basic investigative reporting,
which was way beyond being a therapist.
I mean, this there's no therapeutic
obligation to do this. This is like mega
beyond duty to take collateral history.
But I don't think there's any mystery as
to how it would proceed. And it'll
proceed probably in the same way as the
history of declassified information has
gone since the Second World War. In
about 19, I think 88,
stuff was released to the Senate and the
Congress and then was released to the
press about all these radiation
experiments. But like nobody did
anything. It didn't even get into the
newspapers. It's been in the public
domain for 5 years before it finally
hits the newspapers. Now I've got this
government report that's 900 pages on
all the radiation experiments includes
giving radiation to uh uh children and
radiation to pregnant mothers uh and the
children of those pregnancies dying of
leukemia by age five. This is huge big
stuff. There was just everybody was
apathetic. Didn't think it was really
newsworthy. Didn't even put it as a
little trailer item, you know, in the
New York Times.
But this is no longer vague. We know the
specific names of the people, when they
died, whether it was plutonium or what
it was that was injected, the names of
the doctors, the medical schools it was
done at, and it's all teed up for
compensation. The government has set up
a whole compensation mechanism.
If we look at the Tuskegee syphilis
study, anybody ever heard of the
Tuskegee syphilis study? Tuskegee
syphilis study is worse than creation of
Manurian candidates. It was set up in
Tuskegee in which is Georgia, right? Or
Alabama. Georgia. Alabama.
Uh in the 1940s. The experiment is
you've got 400, they're all rural 1940s
dirt poor black guys with active
syphilis. 400 of them and 400 controls.
These people are followed prospectively
without treatment into the 1970s.
The people who are involved in the
Tuskkegee syphilis study include huge
long list I can't remember all the
details on but it includes like the
county medical society
the administration of the study in the
'60s was actually taken over by the
center of disease control uh the surgeon
general the American heart association
all kinds of people were witting
knowledgeable and aware of the study and
approved its ongoing nature well into
the 60s and even into the 1970s in
complete violation of all known methical
ethics.
Well, okay. So, that was kept kind of
secret. Nobody heard about it except
some of these medical bigwigs. No, I
have a 1965 paper that I photocopied at
the medical school called Untreated
Syphilis in a Male Negro, a 20-year
follow-up.
This stuff is published right in the
medical literature. It's looking
everybody right in the face. What
happens when you have 400
illiterate rural black guys with active
syphilis untreated for 40 years? Well,
the outcome of the experiment is, you'll
be very surprised to hear, they don't do
too well. They develop a lot of disease
and they die young.
They do another thing. They breathe air.
There's another behavior that we can
predict of these guys that is they eat
food. Going down the list, they urinate
and defecate. Continuing on with basic
human functions, they have sexual
intercourse with women.
Anybody who's been to medical school
will tell you it is 100% guaranteed that
if you take 400 black guys with syphilis
and do not treat them for the rest of
their lives, you are guaranteed to be
creating cases of congenital syphilis.
The entire medical community knows this
for an elementary fact that you learn in
first year medical school. It's
published in the medical literature and
it's condoned by all levels of the old
boy network in world medicine. This is
totally unbelievable and completely
factual.
So like this manurian candidate stuff is
like the little Mickey Mouse psych
stuff. It's not even heavy duty.
So all of this I mean you can the uh
nurse who was the head of the Tuskegee
syphilis study throughout its duration
actually got an award from the public
health service because of her work on
the Tuskkegee syphilis study. So the now
some of these guys the individual guys
have gone and testified at the Senate.
You can read the book called Bad Blood
and these guys are named as individual
human beings. Which individual human
beings are victims of military mind
control research do we already know?
Harold Blau, the tennis pro, who was
killed. Frank Olsen was killed because
he jumped through a window because he
took LSD mixed with quantro administered
by Sydney Godly, administrative head of
MK Ultra that I've talked to on the
telephone.
When was the Olsson family uh
compensated? He died in like 1955 or
something. They were compensated by the
president in 1977,
I think it was. The reason they figured
out what happened, this is the children
and the surviving mother. The reason
they figured out that in fact this was
not just a simple suicide was they read
the Rockefeller report on CIA activities
published in 1975 in which the case was
described without him being named. So
they're reading the Rockefeller report
and they realized that their father
actually was killed by experimental LSD
and they're compensated for 3/4 of a
million dollars. Uh, one of the people
who testified at the uh, committee
hearings in the Senate in 1975
uh, was a a technician for Amado Morazzi
who was the guy who was the head of
Edgeware Arsenal where Paul Hawk got his
LSD and masculine from who was funded by
the Air Force while he was at the
University of Minnesota. His research
assistant whose name is Mary Ray was
given a dose of L experimental LSD which
resulted in an acute psychotic state for
which she was admitted to the hospital
for which I have the medical record.
Uh and I'm in contact with her lawyer.
I'm going to go up and interview her and
get her story in more detail. She talks
about a room that was involved in the
LSD research which was called the leaf
room. So when you were on your acid trip
administered by Amadeo Morazzi, you
would be taken into the leaf room which
is a room all surfaces of the room were
totally covered with leaves.
This is weird stuff.
Uh
she also was connected into a bunch of
other stuff that actually it's just like
I'm not going to go into all of it
because it's a little weird, but it's
two hops from Mary Ray to around Contra.
So, she is a real person who exists. I
know her lawyer. I talked to her lawyer
on the phone. I'm going to fly up there.
I'm going to interview her. I have the
medical record. And the way this works
is the the stuff that happens now is not
going to be declassified for 20 or 25
years. Eventually, we will have the
names of people who were victims of
these experiments in the 70s and ' 80s
and the '90s. We already have their
names for the 50s and the 60s, not
really into the 70s. We have the names
of specific people who are victims of
the Tuskegee syphilis study and the
radiation experiments into the 70s. So
that's just the way it goes. is just
you're just pushing back that curtain
and there's always this lag time because
you're relying on you equals the
intelligence committee are relying on
public apathy and oh well it was back in
the cold war and it's different now and
we joined the boy scouts of America and
we don't do that anymore. So there's
always a disinformation strategy for why
it happened a long time ago we don't do
it now. were very regretful and were so
regretful that in fact we agreed to
compensate these victims in the
radiation experiments. It was Oregon I
think Oregon. Yeah, Oregon. There's a
prison in Oregon where uh men were paid
to be subjects to participate in
radiation experiments and what they uh
had done was their testicles were
irradiated. So they would get paid a
certain fee to participate in the
radiation of their testicles. special
arrangements were made uh so that
Catholics didn't participate in the
study because they couldn't use birth
control. Therefore, they might give
birth to genetically mutated children.
So, it had to be only non-atholic
participants. Then there was an extra
fee that was a little bit fatter if you
would agree to have your testicle biopsy
to see whether the radiation was
dropping your sperm count. When nine of
these people uh pressed their case to
the state legislature in Oregon in
either the late 70s or early 80s, in its
magnanimity, the U legislature agreed to
compensate them for a total of $2,000
and some dollars for all nine subjects.
So, this is the way it goes with trying
to document this stuff and get it made
public and identify the specific
individuals. It's a big slow job and
when you make Freedom of Information Act
requests, it's like interacting with any
federal bureaucracy. In fact, the CIA
has been extremely helpful, extremely
polite, very courteous and when I went
to CIA reading room in Washington, which
was very unusual experience. Well, let
me just tell you the story because it's
kind of a good story. So, here I am, uh,
Canadian psychiatrist,
walking, going down to the Eastern
Regional Conference, and a day early, I
pop over to the CIA reading room to look
at the MK Ultra documents to figure out
which ones I want to order at 10 cents a
page, which they then ship to me, which
arrives in my office on from UPS with
Central Intelligence Agency stamped in
the corner.
I'm wondering who thinks that's weird.
So, I show up and it's just this
building in uh Virginia on a street
that's completely unrecognizable.
Doesn't look like anything. I get
dropped off there. I walk in like, "Woo,
there's all these guys in uniforms." And
I here I'm this civilian and on the wall
it says secured telephone uh CIA and DIA
only. And I'm kind of standing around
and some says some guy says, "Good
morning, sir." And I say, "Well, I'm
here um to read some CIA documents. I'm
supposed to show up at this uh location
at this time, and here's the letter."
And and they're going, "CIA? Jeez." And
then it's like, "Who are we going to
phone to? Are you supposed to tell
somebody you're here or how's this
supposed to work?" Well, I don't know. I
was just told to show up here. Says,
"Well, well, we don't know who's
supposed to meet you." So then I say,
"Well, could I use your phone?" Yeah.
Not that phone. This this phone over
here. So then I phone my secretary like,
"What's the telephone number of the
contact person?" So she gives it to me
and I say, "Well, you're okay. You're
supposed to contact this person at this
phone number." "Oh, it's okay. We found
out who it is. They're going to be down
in a minute." So then I sign in. I'm
escorted up the elevator. It's all like
military guys. And I'm sitting on the
elevator thinking, "Now, which one of
these guys is doing surveillance on me?"
I come up to the floor and we're walking
along and it's a federal building. Like
the floor is under repair. There's all
kinds of
construction stuff lying around and
construction guys. And I go walking down
the corridor accompanied by the CIA
person. And I go into the first room
which has got like a steel vault door
and it says secured area treasury
department. So I go into that room. They
close the door. I'm now in a secured
area.
She says, "Uh, okay. Uh, sign in here."
I think I signed in. I forget. Then I go
through another secured steel door into
a second secured area because I can't
enter that secured area except from
another secured space which and then I
sit down and they bring in all the
documents on a a little cart and she
gives me like 15 or 20 pencils
beautifully sharpened and there's a and
a notepad and everything and here's you
order which documents you want at the
end of the day and there's a woman who's
at least 80 if not 85 who's a retired
volunteer sitting there watching me all
day.
But I'm in the room that I'm in that's a
secured space. The doorway is open back
to the hallway that I came down from the
elevator to go into the first secured
space to go into the
So then I'm sitting there working away
on this huge amount of documents all day
like just work work work work. Somewhere
in the middle of the day the this old
woman So I'm thinking now is this old
woman trying to pump me for information?
What's her report going to be back at
the end of the day? She says, "Well,
what's that stuff you're reading?" And
I'm trying to act cas. I just say,
"Well,
it's just a bunch of, you know, mind
control documents from the ' 50s and
60s." She says, "Well, is that stuff
classified?" I said, "No, no, it was
declassified a long time ago." She says,
"So, what do they need me here for?" I
go, "I don't know." And I stopped
talking to her and focused down on my
paper. So then I get distracted by a
couple of black guys are walking down
the corridor have something to do with
the construction.
The 85-year-old white-haired woman who's
watching me has to go to the restroom.
So they're assigned to watch me from the
door. And they're they're like some
black guys who start joking around
about, oh, this guy's pretty dangerous.
We'll have to watch him.
And then at the end of the day, I leave.
That's my experience.
So, but
but the uh the main contact person is
like very friendly, very polite, very
efficient, very helpful. And it's
through this process, I mean, they've
given me these documents. They're the
ones who've made it possible to prove
that the CIA has been creating material
candidates, but I've got all these other
requests in on MK search and all this MK
Nomi and stuff, and I'm going to put one
in on Stargate.
uh if you want to do a request on an
individual, it turns out that you have
to establish his place and date of
birth, his full name, his date of death,
the fact that he was American citiz
citizen, and you have to have public
documentation of his death before they
will do a search, which is protecting
proper protection of people. So, you got
to do all of this background research to
find out like when did Carl Feifer die
and where did he die and get a newspaper
clipping from Atlanta to document that.
Then you send all that information into
them and you ask for information on this
particular guy and they send you back
the MK Ultra document that you already
have that you already know is due to him
except now his name's not whited out.
So, a lot of it is just kind of like
dealing with a federal bureaucracy and
it's just really, really, really slow.
And they say like, "We've, you know,
we've only got two secretaries and we've
got a million requests and we're too
overloaded and we don't have our new
computer system and we can't get this
stuff to you, but we're working on it."
And it's just a very, very, very slow,
laborious process to get this stuff.
Especially if it's if it's already
declassified and it's indexed, then you
can get it fairly quickly like the MK
Ultra stuff. If it's just being
organized, it isn't yet officially
declassified, then you get in a line and
you're piggybacked on top of the first
requesttor.
When the first requesttor gets the
stuff, you'll get it as well. And so,
like MK search, I've been waiting for a
couple years already.
So, you're try, it's like, you know,
trying to change the way agriculture is
administered in the United States. It's
this huge laborious process. You're just
trying to egg the bureaucracy on and on
and on and on. But just to kind of
repeat the editorial comment, basically
I don't have a beef with the
intelligence agencies. My beef is with
the psychiatrist and the psychologists.
Other question or comment at all?
>> Do you know whether you would or not if
you are being surveyed or
>> do I know if I'm being surveyed? There's
>> beenroach by the conferences or
anything?
>> Well, I've been approached by millions
of people at conferences. I don't know
if any of them are operatives or not. I
have no I've had no like negative scary
frightening intimidation threat. Uh my
office has not been broken into. Doesn't
look nothing about mail tampering.
Nothing's gone missing. Uh no patients
have done anything really dangerous and
weird towards me. Nobody's disappeared.
You know, no dead chickens on my
doorstep.
Uh you know, nobody's hustled me into a
black car and all of a sudden I'm in
Topeka, Kansas. And I don't know how I
got there. Nothing like that has
happened.
And so I just assume that if it hasn't
happened by now, it's already too late.
Like what's the point? Uh so part of
this whole story, which I didn't get
into, is the personal side of it is how
do you work your way through all this
material and get more and more and more
and more and more of these connections
and not succumb to terminal paranoia.
And it's really just sort of a zen
of not the zen of investigating military
mind control. You just have to stay
centered and decide not to be paranoid
and not let it get to you. And because
you can get off into like how many
witnesses to the JFK assassination are
dead and what about Panama 103 and what
about Timothy McVeyy's computer chip in
his buttock and you you can really get
out there real fast.
Tim when he was first arrested Timothy
McVey said that he had a computer chip
implanted in his buttock.
So, and but on the other hand, I would
assume like I hope that the intelligence
agencies are not so fast asleep. I mean,
basically, I was saying to John, it's
narcissistically injurious to think that
they're not paying any attention at all.
I can't take that.
And I know for a fact they have a file
on me because I've filed millions of
Freedom of Information Act requests. And
the other thing I know is that I got my
green card in 1994
uh at the highest level of green card
there is. It's a level where you don't
have to even have a job or any visible
sign of report. And I got this
immigration lawyer who you put my whole
CV and all my publications and letters
from people and stuff together. And so
that involves obviously security screen
uh by the state department which means
connected to justice and connected to
the FBI and etc etc etc. So I know I've
been screened through uh you know all
that kind of mechanism and come out. In
fact, the um I had to go to Calgary for
the green card and the the consulate
there came up and shook my hand and
said, "Boy, I bet you we got a lot of
disassociation disorders right here.
We could really use you."
>> Uh I think they're trying to pretend
that they're never going to get
uncovered and just carry on with life
and enjoy their retirements.
overall
overall what's going on now um I assume
that there's still a lot of funding of
research through cutouts with unwitting
investigators I assume there's a bunch
of waiting investigators there's another
let's see here we got 10 minutes let me
tell you about another arm that I know
is going on currently that's artificial
intelligence uh research and I know that
um for instance Marvin Murky at MIT in
his book the society of mind he
acknowledges extensive office of naval
research funding that goes back to John
Lily who uh is tied into the LSD network
who treated dolphins with LSD who's
involved in communication with dolphins.
Dolphins for a documented fact have been
used to uh swim up to ships to blow them
up with bombs attached to the dolphins
in the Vietnam War. Uh we hear weird
stuff from patients sometimes about
dolphins and mind control. Uh John Lou
is tied into the LSD network and it got
him attending CIA sponsored LSD
symposia. He invented the flotation
tank. Flotation tank research is in
network and all the sensor deprivation
stuff and mixed in with hallucinogens.
And he wrote a program on meta
programming in the human computer which
is a early artificial intelligence
treatis that basically defines a
modularity model of the human mind which
is the dominant model uh of neural
networks all that area of artificial
intelligence and a whole bunch of
different office of naval research
funding and that that's ongoing up to
the present. There's office of naval
research funding for that kind of
research. Also for um rat physiology,
rat psychology research that has to do
with modularity of brain functions and
modularity of memory which all is
directly relevant to creating materian
candidates cuz you're create you want to
know the modular organization of the
brain.
>> So which hypothesis now?
No, there's a very good question. You're
assuming that I might have the answer.
The answer is if the hypothesis is that,
now I'm not saying like everybody on the
false memory syndrome advisory board
consciously is aware of this. Most of
them are like totally out to lunch. I've
never heard of it or thought of it. The
point would be that the intelligence
agencies have somehow penetrated the
false memory movement and are trying to
spin it in that direction and amplify it
for those purposes and candidate people
for intelligence oversight would include
Martin Orley West, Richard Oshi, etc.
maybe Michael Persinger.
Um,
so if that's the hypothesis and the
basic thing is to cover up uh government
manurian candidates, why are the
patients all coming with in with SRRA
stories? Well, that could be
accidentally related and just part of a
cultural hysteria and not real. The
other paranoid conspiracy theory is that
the um intelligence agencies subcontract
with the cults to prime the children to
be good uh subjects for men really
really complicated mentoring candidates
cuz if you just start with GI Joe at age
19 you can't you know get an intensely
polar fragmented multi multi-layers of
defense system in place very easily if
you so one of the pieces of logic I
didn't mention is if you go back to
Jesterbrooks
and you're in the second world war He's
creating one alter personality
in an adult recruit.
Okay, let's look at the stage that
computers are at in the Second World War
and run up to 1996.
We have to postulate that the technical
advance and the increase in complexity
in mind control research and operations
has at least somewhat paralleled the
complexity of artificial intelligence,
all the rest of science, etc. So, if
they're still doing it, it's got to be a
lot more complicated.
And you've got to have you you can't get
to a lot more complicated from a
foundation of a normal 18-year-old
military recruit. So that's the ultimate
paranoid conspiracy theory. It's a
matter of opening windows in the
program. The first window that comes
open is the SRRA. The window behind that
is the military mind control.
Alternatively, the whole SR thing could
itself be deliberate disinformation
that's been implanted in the culture.
Broaden the question a little bit.
What's my political recommendation on
what should be the legal liability of
governmentinduced manurian candidates
for criminal acts that they've
perpetrated and I would say that we
should have a double amnesty program and
this is for strategic reasons. It's like
politics is the art of the possible.
Some people could say this is unethical
and this is like uh you know caving in
and playing the game. I think that we
have to have a double amnesty program
for any criminal acts conducted by
government induced manurian candidates
in the course of their government
operations and also amnesty for their
handlers
because if we don't have that then the
drive to keep it all covered up is too
great. So we we can't get this wound
down. My basic argument is that I I
think this is the intelligence community
has been sold a bogus bill of goods by
these guys like Gester Brooks and all
his heirs down the line. It's overkill.
It's unnecessary. It's ridiculous. You
can just drop it and there will be no
operational loss. Though I know that for
a fact. I haven't got the faintest idea.
But that's what I would propose to them.
They could do their own analysis. If
we're going to stop it and let it come
out into public, that'll never happen if
the individual handlers and operators in
the intelligence community are going to
be nailed in public and personally
responsible. So there has to be a double
amnesty program. But then there has to
be financial compensation for the
victims who get identified. That is less
likely to happen if the compensation
comes out of the intelligence budget.
Therefore, it ought to come out of
general federal funds and ought not to
reduce intelligence committee funding.
Otherwise, you've set up systemic
disincentive to this stuff ever being
declassified.